Guide clients with their home financing this spring market with the Home Finance Resource Certification live virtual course on Jan 22, 2026 and save $50. Guide clients with their home financing this spring market with the Home Finance Resource Certification live virtual course on Jan 22, 2026 and save $50. Designations are specialized credentials for REALTORS® acknowledging experience and expertise in various real estate sectors. Designations offer extensive benefits and require dues and continued membership. REALTORS® may list credentials after their name. Win more buyer clients and strengthen your reputation through expert negotiations and proven representation techniques. Expand globally, attract international buyers, and close cross-border deals with confidence and credibility. Differentiate your business by mastering sustainable housing, appealing to eco-minded buyers and boosting property value potential. Capture the booming 50+ market by guiding clients to downsize, invest smartly, and refer you confidently. Certifications can be earned by completing necessary education requirements. Certifications do not have annual dues. Once you apply and pay the one-time fee, it's yours to use in perpetuity if you are a NAR member in good standing. Serve every community confidently, expand your client base, and grow business through inclusive real estate practices. Boost visibility and leads through digital marketing, social media mastery, and online client conversion. Guide clients through home-financing options confidently to improve outcomes and build lasting relationships. Support military families, expand your network, and secure more relocation referrals with trusted expertise. Price properties accurately, strengthen client trust, and negotiate with confidence in every transaction. Tap into lucrative vacation and investment markets by mastering resort-property sales strategies and client targeting. Turn distressed properties into opportunity, guiding buyers and sellers through complex sales. A certificate is a professional qualification. REALTORS® who earn a certificate acquire a skill in a specific field, which is evidence of knowledge and competency. NAR offers a wide range of educational opportunities for business and leadership success. Explore the educational offerings from NAR’s affiliated institutes, societies, and councils. REALTORS® are required to complete Code of Ethics and Fair Housing / Anti-Bias training upon becoming a member and every 3 years thereafter. Your state may require continuing education to maintain a real estate license. REALTORS® are required to complete ethics training every 3 years. Members can complete NAR's free online courses or a local association's course. REALTORS® are required to complete Fair Housing / Anti-Bias Training coinciding with each Code of Ethics training cycle. Real Estate CE requirements vary by state. Choose your state to check specific real estate licensing rules, time frames, and due dates. Founded in 1923, the National Association of REALTORS® Library & Archives offers a variety of research services and thousands of print and digital resources for use by NAR members and state and local association staff. Search NAR's Library Collection Search NAR's eBooks Collection Sign up for our daily newsletter 'NAR REALTOR® News Now' or register to access all NAR newsletters. By subscribing to NAR REALTOR® News Now, managed by SmartBrief, you are agreeing to receive one daily email with news, offers, and information from the National Association of REALTORS® and SmartBrief. Visit our Privacy Policy. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email.
