Early next year, remodeling activity is projected to peak at the highest level since at least 2022. Yet, despite the robust near-term outlook, remodeling professionals are less optimistic than they have been during almost every quarter for more than three years. Harvard Homeowner spending on improvements and repairs to their own residences during the third quarter was estimated at a […] Home Improvement Financing Home Improvement, Remodeling, Home Renovation, Home Restoration, Home Refurbishment, Room Addition, Accessory Dwelling Unit and ADU Financing 3-Year Peak Predicted for Remodeling, Outlook Cools Early next year, remodeling activity is projected to peak at the highest level since at least 2022. Yet, despite the robust near-term outlook, remodeling professionals are less optimistic than they have been during almost every quarter for more than three years. Harvard Homeowner spending on improvements and repairs to their own residences during the third quarter was estimated at a […] Cash Management Use Grows, Non-Bank CES Share Up Year-over-year growth in home-equity line-of-credit production was recorded even as homeowner equity slipped during the period. The proportion of home-equity products used for renovations has diminished as cash management share has expanded. On closed-end originations, non-depository lenders are wrestling market share away from credit unions. Property Upgrades Spur Modest Expansion in HELOC Activity Homeowners seeking to update and remodel their properties are helping drive modest increases in home-equity line-of-credit activity, according to the latest Beige Book. Inflation is having an impact on consumer spending. Home Equity Peaks, Originations Up, Purpose Pivots Fresh data from a variety of sources shows U.S. home-equity lending expanded in 2024, though a notable shift occurred in how borrowers are tapping their equity — with debt consolidation gaining ground over renovation projects. While homeowner housing capital has climbed to unprecedented heights, early indicators suggest a possible plateau. Loan performance metrics are sending mixed signals. Home Improvement Originations Surge Despite Weak Outlook Quarterly home-improvement financing by bank, credit union and non-bank originators staged an impressive year-over-year surge, climbing more than a third despite a linked-quarter decline. While forecasts for residential remodeling remain subdued, fresh signals from the Federal Reserve hint at underlying resilience. 🔒NewRez Parent Acquiring High Yield Home Improvement Loans A deal has been struck for the parent of NewRez LLC to acquire $1 billion in short-term home-improvement loans with yields far in excess of mortgages.
