Peloton has officially updated their yoga class type filters, renaming “Yoga Conditioning” to “Sculpt Flow.” This change follows the recent introduction of Sculpt Flow yoga classes – many of which are led by two of Peloton’s newest yoga instructors in Greta Dopp and Johanna Ricouz. Sculpt Flow classes blend the mindfulness of yoga with the burn of light-weight strength training, and Peloton previously indicated that more of these classes were on the way. While the name has changed, the updated Sculpt Flow filter still includes all previously released Yoga Conditioning classes, which share many of the same characteristics as the new Sculpt classes. Note that Peloton does not appear to be renaming individual, previously released Yoga Conditioning classes. Instead, this update signals a forward-looking shift in how these classes are labeled, with new offerings expected to fall under the Sculpt Flow name moving forward. Currently, there are no upcoming classes labeled as Yoga Conditioning – which Peloton launched back in May of 2023 – on the upcoming Peloton schedule. However, there are a number of Sculpt Flow classes on the upcoming schedule – including ones taught by Mariana Fernández, one of the main instructors who offered Yoga Conditioning. In a recent video shared on social media, instructors Greta Dopp, Johanna Ricouz, and Mariana Fernández offered more insight into what members can expect from Sculpt Flow classes. They stated: “Sculpt flows are conditioning made captivating. A dynamic blend of core activation, light weights, and isometric holds. You’ll get stronger and more flexible, all while moving with breath and intention. It’s really the best of both worlds in one workout. And trust me, those light weights ain’t gonna feel so light in a flow. If you’re ready for something new, something spicy, something to make you feel incredible, check out sculpt flow.” The description closely mirrors what members have experienced in Yoga Conditioning classes since their debut, reinforcing the idea that Sculpt Flow is an evolution of the same concept rather than a completely new format. The inclusion of Greta, Johanna, and Mariana in the video suggests that these three will be teaching Sculpt Flow; it is currently unclear whether other Peloton yoga instructors will branch into the format in the future as well. With this latest update, Peloton appears to be simplifying and strengthening the branding around these classes, leaning into the Sculpt Flow name as the format continues to expand, and updating the filter to correspond accordingly. Support the site! Enjoy the news & guides we provide? Help us keep bringing you the news. Pelo Buddy is completely free, but you can help support the site with a one-time or monthly donation that will go to our writers, editors, and more. Find out more details here. Get Our Newsletter Want to be sure to never miss any Peloton news? Sign up for our newsletter and get all the latest Peloton updates & Peloton rumors sent directly to your inbox.
