or The plastic surgery physicians and aestheticians at UT Southwestern Medical Center take a comprehensive, individualized approach to evaluating and improving the health and vitality of patients’ skin. Based on the patient’s skin type and condition, as well as lifestyle and goals, our doctors prescribe a tailored skincare regimen of clinically researched products and leading-edge treatments, which include skin care, chemical peels, laser treatments, photorejuvenation, and skin tightening procedures. Tailored Treatments for Healthy, Vital Skin Our skincare services may be beneficial for patients with conditions such as acne and acne scars, age spots, fine lines and wrinkles, hyperpigmentation, loose or sagging skin, rosacea, sunspots and sun damage, spider veins and varicose veins, and unwanted facial or body hair. UT Southwestern Plastic Surgery consistently scores in the highest percentiles for patient satisfaction. One measure is our Press Ganey scores, which rank consumer satisfaction in health care services. We consistently rank in the 90th percentile and above. Our plastic surgeons are devoted not only to providing the latest in cosmetic medicine but also to participating in age-management research to evaluate the most effective, state-of-the-art treatments. UT Southwestern’s Clinical Center for Cosmetic Laser Treatment integrates skincare with advancements in ablative and nonablative treatments for skin rejuvenation. Noninvasive treatments for hair removal, red or brown pigmentation reduction, leg vein removal, or facial rejuvenation are available. The first step is a skincare consultation to determine the best products and treatments for improving the health and beauty of the patient’s skin. Our doctors work together with licensed medical aestheticians to create an individualized treatment plan. By scheduling a skincare consultation, patients can make informed decisions about what treatment is right for them. To schedule a skincare consultation, use MyChart or call 214-645-2353. Skincare Consultation: What to Expect The consultation begins with a skincare evaluation, which will be a thorough review of what has been done in the past as well as the patient’s goals. With guidance from a doctor and a medical aesthetician, patients learn about blemishes, hyperpigmentation, and the effects of environmental damage and aging skin through a review of health history and lifestyle habits. During this review, our specialists will determine what types of products and treatments may allow patients to achieve their skincare goals for their skin type and condition. This might include both preventive and treatment protocols involving topical products, peeling agents, microneedling, and laser and light-based treatments. We plan a comprehensive, unique approach to each patient’s skincare evaluation and daily maintenance. Treatment Options Skincare Products Our doctors and aestheticians are dedicated to helping patients make informed skincare selections to achieve healthy, beautiful skin. Medical-grade products combined with skincare education are essential in uncovering the skin’s true potential. We carry a wide variety of clinically researched skincare lines to treat individual skincare needs, such as: ZO Skin Health SkinCeuticals Elta MD Senté Globiotics Neocutis The following products may be included in an individualized skincare program and aid in the rejuvenation, improvement of function, and protection of the skin: A derivative of vitamin A, Retin-A is the most effective and most studied anti-aging topical product on the market today. It encourages the skin to function as it should. Retin-A is available in three strengths and is used to stimulate cellular turnover. It sheds the surface layer (stratum corneum) of the skin while thickening the epidermis. This process strengthens the skin, softens fine lines and wrinkles, and produces a youthful, healthy glow. Retin-A is also known to improve texture and elasticity and to increase blood circulation as it maintains even cell growth. Many patients believe they are allergic or too sensitive to use Retin-A because of normal side effects that occur. This active prescription can cause dryness, itching, redness, flaking, and photosensitivity, though the benefits largely outweigh the brief and controlled side effects. Strength and frequency of this product are determined by the patient’s skin type and level of tolerance. Retinol is a milder derivative of vitamin A, which works well for sensitive skin. Retinol can achieve results similar to those of Retin-A but may take longer to rejuvenate the skin. Retinol must be converted to retinoic acid before it can stimulate cell turnover and improve skin texture, dyspigmentation, dryness, and fine lines. Most retinol products are formulated with emollients and other soothing ingredients to help combat irritation. Alpha hydroxy acids (AHAs) are a family of natural compounds found in fruit, sour milk, and plants. AHAs are beneficial in treating photoaging, acne, and the prevention of fine lines. Although not as effective as Retin-A, AHAs offer significant exfoliation benefits for patients ready for a skincare maintenance program, or who do not want to experience the side effects of Retin-A. Beta hydroxy acids (BHAs) are exfoliating acids that are oil soluble. BHAs are best at treating oily and acneic skin. They help regulate oil production, have anti-inflammatory properties, and are able to deeply penetrate pores to help unclog them. The most well-known BHA is salicylic acid. Hydroquinone suppresses pigment formation in the skin. Pigment, often called sunspots, age spots, liver spots, or freckles, is caused by sun damage, free radicals, and hormones. Hydroquinone will not bleach the skin but will keep it from producing more unwanted pigment. This is why it is important to use Retin-A in conjunction with hydroquinone. Most patients are not satisfied if they use hydroquinone by itself. We treat both deep and superficial hyperpigmentation. Retin-A will exfoliate the patient’s established pigment, and hydroquinone will prevent reoccurrence or suppress new pigment formation and assist in achieving an even skin color. Our aestheticians will monitor the strength and frequency of this product. The most popular forms of antioxidants are vitamin C and vitamin E. These antioxidants neutralize and protect the skin from free radical stress or extrinsic aging. Free radicals are oxygen atoms that attack by attaching themselves and compromising the membrane. Human skin comes into contact with free radicals every day through pollution, sun exposure, poor diet, smoking, and alcohol. Over time, free radical damage will cause collagen collapse, loss of elastin, and hyperpigmentation. The formulation of protective products containing antioxidants is important. Delivery of vitamins into the skin is difficult and must remain stable. L-ascorbic acid (vitamin C) and alpha tocopherol (vitamin E) are considered the strongest and most effective active ingredients but should come from a reputable skincare line to ensure delivery into the skin. Topical antioxidants should be included in most patients’ home skincare programs; they are available in many strengths, with stronger percentages sold only through a physician’s office. Growth factors found in skincare products are derived from human or plant sources. As we age, our natural growth factors reduce significantly. Finding the right delivery system to restore growth factors can play a major role in healing damaged skin. By stimulating the body’s natural cell regeneration, growth factors can rejuvenate the skin’s collagen and elastin. This helps the skin heal efficiently and achieve lasting results. Probiotics are living microorganisms that can provide incredible health benefits to the skin when used topically. Probiotics accelerate the skin’s renewal process, coaxing fresh cells for healing to the surface, and boost the skin’s immunity, protecting it from harmful bacteria. Hyaluronic acid (HA) is a sugar found naturally in our skin that holds water and helps keep skin hydrated and plump. The amount of natural HA in our bodies decreases as we get older. HA is the key to instantly plumping fine lines and adding glow to the skin’s appearance. This lightweight serum is a great hydrator for combination and oily skins. HAs are also found in serums and even injectables. The majority of premature aging is caused by overexposure to the sun. Only a broad-spectrum sunblock will provide sufficient protection from both UVA (aging) and UVB (burning) rays. Active ingredients such as titanium dioxide and zinc oxide provide protection from both UVA and UVB rays. Sun protection factor (SPF) is a rating given by the Food and Drug Administration but applies only to the burning rays, not the aging rays. It’s important to use a broad-spectrum sunblock with SPF 30 or greater every morning. Sunblock is active for only three hours, so reapplication is crucial to protecting the skin. Moisturizers are rated on their ability to attract water and provide a barrier to keep in moisture. Our moisturizers are carefully formulated with multifunctional ingredients that nourish and protect all skin types. Cleansers and toners prepare the skin for treatment products with a variety of active ingredients to remove makeup, lift impurities, gently exfoliate, and balance our natural pH. Also, patient preference and individual lipid levels (oiliness or dryness) are taken into consideration when choosing a cleanser or a toner. Laser Treatments for Every Skin Our dermatology and plastic surgery specialists use the most advanced laser technology for safe, effective laser skin rejuvenation and laser resurfacing. Laser treatments, also known as ablative techniques, are more aggressive and address deeper pigmentation and wrinkles. The downside is prolonged recovery time. The “Erbium Weekend Peel” is an ablative restoration treatment that promotes skin cell growth while removing superficial damaged layers. Laser light removes the skin’s tough, dull outer layer to reveal newer skin beneath. Patients will see a healthier, more youthful glow as damage inflicted by the sun, aging, and biological factors softens. A microlaser peel improves the quality of the skin, some pigmentation, and fine lines. The peeling process lasts three to five days. Sciton’s mJoule platform includes two laser technologies: BBL Hero is a light-based treatment that can treat with greater speed, efficacy, and comfort compared to previous intense pulsed light (IPL) and broadband light (BBL) modalities. Hero is ideal for uneven pigmentation, redness, and skin tone and skin texture concerns. It requires fewer treatments for a faster, radiant result. MOXI is a nonablative fractional treatment that targets early signs of aging and sun damage. It uses a 1927nm wavelength that is safe for all skin types. With minimal downtime, MOXI is perfect for a busy lifestyle to keep skin refreshed and vibrant. Hero and MOXI can be performed individually or in combination to address a person’s specific needs. This laser treatment improves skin texture, tone, and, in some cases, acne scarring. Recuperation time varies from a few days to a week, depending on how aggressive of a treatment is recommended. This procedure aggressively addresses pigmentation, texture, and wrinkles. It is not a skin tightening procedure. The laser creates a controlled skin injury, which stimulates collagen production and improves skin quality. Up to 10 days are needed for skin to completely peel, and it may take as long as two to three months for mild redness to disappear. This is our preferred treatment for moderate-depth wrinkles due to sun damage and aging. Halo is a hybrid laser that combines nonablative and ablative laser wavelengths. This customized fractional laser treatment improves fine lines, pore size, and texture and restores a healthy glow and skin appearance. Halo vaporizes aged tissue with comparatively minimal thermal injury and downtime. Recovery time varies from five to seven days. Laser technology and sclerotherapy help eliminate the appearance of spider veins, which are prominent blood vessels on the legs. They are not broken blood vessels, as is commonly believed. It is thought that heredity, excessive standing, weight gain, hormonal changes, and pregnancy may be some of the causes. Lasers can help clear unsightly blood vessels on the nose, cheek, and chin. Hair reduction technology has improved dramatically and allows for the safe and effective treatment of all hair-bearing skin types, from the very fair to the deeply pigmented. The number and success of treatments depend on which body area is addressed and the growth pattern and color of the hair. Therapies Nonablative therapies preserve the epidermis (the outer layer of the skin) and focus on the deeper dermal structures to create more youthful skin without prolonged healing. These noninvasive treatments are for the removal of red or brown pigmentation, skin tightening, or facial rejuvenation: Photodynamic therapy uses light to treat actinic keratosis, or rough patches of skin caused by excessive sun exposure, that can develop into squamous cell carcinomas. A topical solution is first applied to the skin and then the area is exposed to a bright light, which destroys the actinic keratosis. Some anti-aging protection may be provided by photodynamic therapy. Photorejuvenation uses light to erase the damage caused by the sun, aging, and biological factors. This nonlaser technology applies a broad spectrum of light that reaches within the skin, targeting pigment and vascular imperfections due to expanded blood vessels or rosacea on the face, as well as the neck, chest, and hands. Photorejuvenation treatments may also improve skin texture and reduce pore size. Photorejuvenation therapy requires minimal downtime and is the only therapy that targets both red and brown discoloration within the skin. Most patients undergo a series of three to five treatments to achieve their goal. Maintenance treatments twice a year may be required. We currently use two different technologies to achieve skin tightening: FaceTite®/Morpheus treatment uses an internal application of radiofrequency (RF) energy and an external application of radiofrequency through energy-assisted microneedling. This treatment creates small areas of injury throughout the skin that optimize collagen and elastin deposition. Profound delivers RF through a microneedling, temperature-controlled device. Delivering RF energy to a precise depth creates injury that can improve skin laxity by stimulating elastin, collagen, and hyaluronic acid production. It is important to recognize that these treatments are not a replacement for surgery and will not achieve the results that surgical procedures can. Not every patient is a candidate for these procedures. We will help determine whether a patient is a candidate and what the expectations for treatment success may be. Because of the knowledge and experience of our team, patients can be certain that we will recommend only treatments that will best meet individual needs. Clinical Treatments We offer several intensive chemical treatments designed to support and stimulate elastin and collagen development. Cellular turnover aids the skin in the removal of uneven pigmentation, wrinkles, and active acne. Pores appear more refined, and the overall texture of the skin will improve, revealing beautiful skin. A pre-treatment consultation is necessary for all chemical peel treatments. The micropeel procedure is a three-step clinical procedure combining dermaplaning or exfoliation, chemical peel, and cryogenic therapy to reduce the appearance of fine lines, wrinkles, hyperpigmentation, laxity, and skin imperfections. For optimal results, a series of four to six treatments is recommended. Skincare becomes even more important before and after cosmetic and reconstructive surgery. Whether the surgery is on the face or body, the skin will absorb stress. Facials, massage, and physician-directed skincare products work together to produce skin that is stronger and more resilient when faced with the challenge of surgery. An aesthetician can provide guidance on how to care for the skin during this time. Dermaplaning is an exfoliating treatment that involves gently scraping the skin’s surface with a sterile surgical scalpel to remove the outermost layer of dead skin cells, along with “peach fuzz.” Skin instantly appears smoother and brighter. The SkinPen is the first FDA-approved microneedling device clinically proven to treat acne scarring, texture, and fine lines by creating controlled micro-injuries, which stimulate the production of new collagen. For optimal results, we recommend a series of three treatments. Body Options Our long-standing and unique expertise with body-contouring procedures has continually put us at the forefront of medical and technological advances. CoolSculpting is a nonsurgical technique used to reduce fat in targeted areas, such as the abdomen, back, and sides, using cold temperatures to freeze and destroy fat cells. There is no downtime with this procedure. Treatments take one to three hours and are performed in our offices. Results can be seen in two to three weeks after a CoolSculpting treatment. The full impact can be seen about three months after the procedure. Results are more effective for patients who exercise and have a healthy diet and good skin tone. Outcomes are permanent if a healthy weight is maintained. Finishing Touches Depilatory wax is used to remove unwanted face and body hair from the root for up to a month, freeing the patient from tweezing or shaving. Future growth may become lighter and finer with consistent waxing. Products are used to reduce redness and condition the skin after waxing. Facial exfoliants and acne medications should not be used the week prior to waxing. Tinted eyelashes and eyebrows can free the patient from applying mascara and eyebrow makeup for several weeks. A patch test is required prior to the first appointment to ensure an allergy-free treatment. Make an Appointment To schedule a skincare consultation or get more information, use MyChart or call 214-645-2353 (Dallas location) or 469-604-9120 (Frisco location). Search for opportunities to participate in a clinical research study. StudyFinder We’re one of the world’s top academic medical centers, with a unique legacy of innovation in patient care and scientific discovery. Why UT Southwestern Our secure online portal for patients makes it easy to communicate with your doctor, access test results, and more. Log In
