YOU KNOW YOUR SKIN. WE KNOW SKIN CARE. You know your skin better than anyone, and we know skin care. Share your skin goals with your esthetician and together you can map out a personalized skin care journey to achieve them. Based on your specific skin concerns, they can suggest the appropriate mix of skin care services and products to add to your at-home routine. Your best skin awaits, so let’s get glowing! Microderm Infusion With each pass, an innovative diamond-tipped wand exfoliates, extracts debris, and infuses a choice of serums so you can show off brighter, smoother skin. With minimal downtime, it’s the perfect way to get glowing before a special event! Dermaplaning You may have heard all the buzz surrounding dermaplaning and what it can do for your skin. GREAT NEWS: You can now experience it for yourself at participating Massage Envy franchised locations! Chemical Peel During your session, experienced estheticians utilize PCA SKIN advanced treatments for deep exfoliation, resulting in a refreshed, more radiant-looking you. Zero Downtime Peel This innovative peel offers no expected visible peeling or redness, so you can get glowing and get going! It’s the perfect way to prep your skin for a special occasion. We put the ‘care’ in skin care The sheer volume of information available on the internet about skin care can be overwhelming. How do you know which trends are worth adopting and which you should skip? With a minimum of 500 hours of education and 20 hours of ongoing specialty training, the estheticians employed by franchised locations are skin-savvy, experienced professionals you can trust to guide you towards achieving your best skin. About our providers Use the products the pros do The skin care services offered at select Massage Envy franchised locations feature innovative, efficacious products from industry-leading skin care brands. Those same products are available for you to purchase and use at home, to keep you on track to achieving your skin goals. Marini SkinSolutions™ PCA SKIN® Featured Articles New at Massage Envy: Oxygenating Treatment Ever notice how your face feels dull and tired after a long flight or a busy week? That’s your skin crying out for oxygen. Now, you can breathe new life into your skin with Massage ... Skin Care How often should you get a facial? Facials paired with targeted home-care products can deliver impressive results. Skin Care Beat the Heat: Summer Skin Care Tips You Need to Know Don’t sweat your skin care routine this summer. Make the most of it with these expert-backed tips. SKIN CARE THAT PUTS THE FOCUS WHERE IT BELONGS: ON YOU The best skin care services aren’t one-size-fits-all solutions... They’re targeted to address your specific skin concerns and goals. Because your ME Time is all about YOU. Explore concern-focused skin care Individual results may vary based on user, skin care regimen, and services provided.
