Travelers need to be prepared for the unexpected, whether it’s sudden illness, inclement weather or flight troubles. The best way to do so is ensuring that you have sufficient travel insurance coverage for your trip. While many credit cards include travel insurance coverage, sometimes it's not enough. For example, you may want higher coverage limits or more coverage options than what your credit card offers. You can always choose to supplement any coverage from your credit card with third-party travel insurance plans. To help travelers identify the best travel insurance provider for their needs, NerdWallet collected and analyzed multiple data points from a wide range of travel insurers, looking at important factors like breadth and depth of coverage, cost, plan customizability, and customer reviews. NerdWallet’s picks for best travel insurance companies Best overall: Trawick International . Best for emergency medical coverage: Seven Corners . Best for travelers with pre-existing medical conditions: Travel Guard . Best for pet owners: AEGIS (formerly GoReady) . Best for adventurous travelers: Arch RoamRight . Best if you have travel credit card coverage: WorldTrips . Best for long-term travelers: IMG . Best for travelers with unpredictable work demands: Tin Leg . Best for booking travel with points and miles: John Hancock . Best for skiers and golfers: AXA Assistance USA . Best for group travel insurance: HTH Insurance . Not all policies are available in every state. You will need to input your destination, residence, trip dates and the number of travelers to get a quote and see the coverages available to you. How we found the best travel insurance We collected quotes in October 2025 from dozens of travel insurance companies for a 7-day trip to Mexico in March 2026. The traveler was a 45-year-old man from Illinois who spent $1,500 total on the trip, including airfare. The average price of the most basic coverage plan was about $59. The costs displayed below are for plans that include trip cancellation coverage but do not include optional add-ons, such as Cancel For Any Reason coverage or pre-existing medical condition coverage. However, depending on the plan, you may be able to customize it at an added cost. Methodology Read our full methodology NerdWallet collected hundreds of data points across dozens of travel insurance companies to determine a star rating for each one, with 5 stars being the best and 1 star being the worst. To be eligible for this list of best travel insurance companies, an insurer must have earned a 4.5 star rating or higher based on NerdWallet’s criteria, which included: Cost. By looking at the costs for basic coverage across multiple companies, we determined an average cost for shoppers to benchmark plan prices against. Breadth of coverage. We looked at how many plans each company offered plus the range of their standard plans. Depth of coverage. We considered two data points to get a sense of how much each company pays out for common travel issues — the maximum caps for trip cancellation and trip interruption claims. Customizability. While standard plans can cover a lot of ground, sometimes you need something a little more personal, so we analyzed available add-ons from each insurer. Customer satisfaction. We compiled user reviews across Squaremouth and TrustPilot to determine an aggregated customer satisfaction score, which recognizes companies that did right by their clients. Best travel insurance overall: Trawick International Trawick Trawick International offers comprehensive coverage at an affordable price with a variety of plan options. Pros Cancel For Any Reason available as an add-on for select plans. Several plans offer up to $25,000 or more in primary medical coverage. Many different plan options. Cons Reports of long resolution processes. Lower customer service ratings compared to top-rated peers. Why we picked it: For many travelers, cost is top of mind when determining who to purchase travel insurance from. For price-conscious travelers who want comprehensive protection, Trawick International fits that bill. Its basic Safe Travels Protect plan offers trip cancellation and trip interruption coverage up to 100% of your trip cost, with a maximum benefit of $14,000. It also comes with up to $25,000 of primary medical coverage. Basic plan cost: $43 for Safe Travels Protect, about $16 below average. Best for emergency medical coverage: Seven Corners Best for emergency medical coverage Seven Corners Consider one of its Travel Medical plans if you don’t need trip cancellation coverage. Pros Annual, medical-only and backpacker plans are available. Cancel For Any Reason upgrade is available for the cheapest plan. Basic plan features an Interruption for Any Reason add-on. Cons Offers only one annual policy option. Why we picked it: Each Seven Corners plan offers several optional add-ons. Among the more unique is Interruption for Any Reason, which allows you to interrupt a trip 48 hours after the scheduled departure date (for any reason) and receive a refund of up to 75% of your unused nonrefundable deposits. Seven Corners shines especially with its emergency medical coverage, with generous limits for assistance, evacuation and repatriation even on its basic plan. Basic plan cost: $58 for Trip Protection Basic, about $1 below average. Best for travelers with pre-existing medical conditions: Travel Guard Best for pre-existing medical conditions Travel Guard A multitude of add ons are available so you can better customize your coverage. Pros Offers last-minute coverage. Pre-existing medical condition exclusion waiver available at nearly all plan levels. Plan available for business travelers. Cons Cancel For Any Reason coverage only reimburses up to 50% of the trip cost and is limited to higher-level plans. Trip interruption coverage doesn't apply to trips paid for with points and miles. Why we picked it: Travel Guard offers a variety of plans and coverages to fit travelers’ needs, whether they’re going on a cruise or into adventure sports. If you have a pre-existing medical condition, an exclusion waiver is included on Essential, Preferred and Deluxe plans when the plan is purchased within 15 days of the initial trip payment. Last-minute travelers who don’t need cancellation benefits should consider the Pack N’ Go plan, while business travelers might be interested in an annual plan. Basic plan cost: $66 for Essential, about $7 above average. Best for pet owners: AEGIS (formerly GoReady) AEGIS (GoReady) AEGIS plans are highly customizable, each offering various ancillary coverages. Pros Offers specialty plans for pandemic-related coverages, those staying at vacation rentals and cruise coverage. Can customize protection for work-related trip interruption. Cons Maximum trip length for most plans is 60 days. Some ancillary coverages available on only the basic plan but not more premium ones. Why we picked it: AEGIS (formerly known as GoReady) offers a variety of plans, including one specific for cruisegoers. However, pet owners in particular might benefit from its Choice plan, which includes add-ons that cover pet evacuation and pet veterinarian expenses. Plus, if things go wrong, all policyholders can contact AEGIS for assistance, such as rebooking flights and hotels. Instead of having you pay for it and get reimbursed, AEGIS might be able to pay for it directly. Basic plan cost: $53 for Choice, about $6 below average Best for adventurous travelers: Arch RoamRight Best for adventurous travelers Arch RoamRight Its annual multi-trip plan is a good value for those who travel often. Pros Highly recommended on Squaremouth and TrustPilot. Pre-existing conditions exclusion waiver available on all plans. Offers an emergency medical coverage plan for last-minute travelers. Cons Only two main policy options. No Cancel For Any Reason option. Why we picked it: Arch RoamRight is one of the highest-rated insurers, according to Squaremouth and TrustPilot reviews. It offers a wide range of coverage, as well as a hazardous sports add-on for thrill-seekers, across its two main policy options, the Pro and Pro Plus plans. Some activities covered under the upgrade include bungee jumping, parachuting and skydiving. Those plans also include complimentary coverage for one child under 18 for each insured adult. Basic plan cost: $80 for Pro, about $21 above average. Best if you have travel credit card coverage: WorldTrips Best if you have travel credit card coverage WorldTrips Travel Insurance WorldTrips offers comprehensive plans with benefits like award redeposit fee coverage. Pros Available to U.S. and non-U.S. residents, including international students. All travel protection plans include a pre-existing conditions waiver. Cancel For Any Reason add-ons are available on most plans. Cons Rental car coverage isn’t automatically included with any plan. Baggage delay coverage takes 12 hours to kick in. Why we picked it: WorldTrips offers a variety of travel protection plans, with trip cancellation plans that include coverage for redeposit fees when canceling award travel for a covered reason. It also has several options that focus primarily on travel medical coverage, which are worth considering if you already have coverage through your travel credit card. Basic plan cost: $54 for Atlas Journey Escape, about $5 below average. Best for long-term travelers: IMG Best for long-term travelers IMG With a wide range of plans, choosing the right IMG plan might be overwhelming for some travelers. Pros Coverage available for adventure travelers. Identifies medical providers with direct billing to reduce your out-of-pocket costs. Cons Claim approval can be lengthy. Why we picked it: IMG offers travelers a wide range of plan options. Though this requires a bit more research on your end, it allows you to search for coverage that best fits your travel needs. While it’s not the cheapest option, IMG’s iTravelInsured Lite plan is worth considering for long-term budget travelers. It covers trips up to 180 days and offers 100% trip cancellation coverage and 125% trip interruption coverage. Basic plan cost: $63 for iTravelInsured Choice, about $4 above average. Best for travelers with unpredictable work demands: Tin Leg Best if you have unpredictable work demands Tin Leg Few customizations are available, but plans are generally affordable. Pros In addition to Cancel For Any Reason, some plans offer cancel for work reasons coverage. Adventure sports-specific coverage is available. Cons Plans have overlap that can be hard to distinguish. Claim approval can be lengthy. Only one plan includes rental car damage coverage available as an add-on. Why we picked it: Tin Leg offers a large assortment of plans, including its entry-level Economy plan. Note that you’ll pay a lot more if you shop for the most comprehensive coverage, and there are eight plans to choose from for trips abroad. The multitude of plans can help you find coverage that fits your needs, but with so many to choose from, deciding can be daunting. If your work is unpredictable, you may want to consider a more expensive plan that allows you to add on cancel-for-work coverage, which covers 100% of trip costs. Basic plan cost: $51 for Economy, about $8 below average. Best for booking travel with points and miles: John Hancock Best for booking travel with points and miles John Hancock John Hancock offers generous travel medical coverage and a frequent travel loyalty benefit for award reservations. Pros Covers $200 in fees for redepositing points and miles on eligible canceled award reservations. Cancel For Any Reason add-on available for all plans. Cons Reports of lengthy claims processes. Why we picked it: John Hancock travel insurance offers travelers up to $200 to cover redepositing fees when they cancel flight or hotel award bookings due to a covered reason. The insurer offers frequent-travel loyalty coverage across all three of its plans. Its website makes it easy to compare plan features and add extras, including CFAR coverage and rental car collision coverage. Basic plan cost: $63 for Bronze, about $4 above average. Best for skiers and golfers: AXA Assistance USA Best for skiers and golfers AXA While offering multiple plans, AXA might not allow as many customizations compared to some competitors. Pros Platinum plan includes coverage for lost ski days and golf rounds. Cons No add ons available for Silver plan. Cancel For Any Reason upgrade available only for highest-cost plan. Why we picked it: AXA Assistance USA offers four tiers of coverage: Bronze, Silver, Gold and Platinum, although travelers looking for trip cancellation coverage should look at Silver and above. However, if you’re looking for extra benefits — such as included coverage for lost ski days and lost golf rounds — you’ll want to consider the Platinum plan. Basic plan cost: $71 for Silver, about $12 above average. Best for group travel insurance: HTH Insurance Best for group travel insurance HTH Travel Insurance HTH offers a discount on insurance plans for groups traveling together, a potential advantage for cost-conscious groups. Pros Covers travelers up to 95 years old. Includes direct pay option so members can avoid having to pay upfront for services. Cons Baggage delay must exceed 24 hours before coverage kicks in on the basic plan. No waivers for pre-existing conditions on the lower-level plan. Why we picked it: HTH offers single-trip and multitrip medical insurance coverage as well as trip protection plans. You can choose to insure group trips for educators, crew, religious missionaries and corporate travelers. A group rate of 10% off standard rates is available for parties of five or more. Basic plan cost: $60 for Trip Protector Economy, about $1 above average. What does travel insurance cover? Most travel insurance plans cover many trip protections that can help you be prepared for unexpected travel disruptions and expenses. These coverages are generally aimed at protecting the money you put into your trip, expenses you incur because of travel trouble and costs incurred if you have a medical emergency overseas. On top of core coverages like trip cancellation and interruption and travel medical coverage, some plans offer add-on options like waivers for pre-existing conditions, rental car collision damage waivers or adventure sports riders. These usually cost extra or must be added within a specified timeframe. As you shop for travel insurance, you’ll notice that many of the plans include the same coverage categories. Here’s what they are and what they include: Type of travel insurance What it covers Trip cancellation This covers prepaid costs for your trip when you cancel for a covered reason. It allows you to recoup upfront costs paid for flights and nonrefundable hotel reservations. Trip interruption This covers costs incurred during covered disruptions after departure, such as flight delays and cancellations. It can cover costs for you to return home or reimburse unexpected expenses like an extra hotel stay, meals and ground transportation. Trip delay This covers unexpected costs when your trip is delayed and is another coverage that helps offset the costs of flight trouble or other travel disruptions. Many policies have a total amount a traveler can claim, with caps on per diem benefits. Cancel For Any Reason This allows you to recoup some of the upfront costs you paid for a trip, even when cancelling for a reason not otherwise covered by your policy. This is typically an add-on that costs extra. Baggage delay This covers the costs of essential items (toiletries, clothing, etc.) you might need when your luggage is delayed. Many plans will specify how long the delay must be before you can make a claim. Lost baggage This allows travelers to recoup the lost value of the items in your bag when your luggage is lost or stolen. Make sure you closely follow your plan’s procedures, and take note that many plans include a maximum total amount you can claim under this coverage and a per-item cap. Travel medical insurance This covers out-of-pocket medical costs when travelers run into an emergency, as most health insurance plans don’t cover medical care overseas. Many plans also include medical evacuation or repatriation coverage for costs incurred when you must be taken to a hospital or return to your home country due to a medical situation. Plan benefits can vary a lot, so you’ll want to consider your needs when picking the best policy for you. For example, most plans exclude extreme sports activities, so if you’re a thrill-seeker, you will likely need a plan with specific coverage for adventure activities. You’ll also want to consider which reasons are excluded for making a claim. For many plans, that includes fear of travel, medical tourism or pregnancies (unless you booked a trip and bought insurance before you became pregnant or there are complications with the pregnancy). This is where a Cancel For Any Reason add-on to your coverage can be helpful. How to choose the best travel insurance policy Selecting the best travel insurance policy comes down to your needs, concerns, preferences and budget. As you book, take a few minutes to consider what most concerns you. Is it getting stranded because of flight trouble, or needing the ability to cancel for any reason without losing money? Maybe you’re worried about getting sick or injured right before departure and needing to postpone the trip, or even injuring yourself or falling ill while overseas. Ultimately, you want a plan that protects you, your money and the large investment in your trip — but doesn’t cost too much, either. Here are some common reasons why people buy travel insurance and the policy types they should consider: Medical coverage. If your priority is having adequate medical coverage abroad, you might want to look for plans with high limits for medical emergencies and medical evacuation. Complex travel itinerary. If your itinerary has lots of flight connections, prepaid hotels and deposits for activities you can’t get back, prioritizing a plan with the best coverage for trip cancellations or interruptions may land at the top of your list. Travel uncertainty. If you’re on the fence about a trip and have nonrefundable reservations, you may want to select a plan with a Cancel For Any Reason coverage option, which can help you recoup about 50% to 75% of the costs. This helps provide peace of mind, placing the decision on whether to travel entirely in your hands. Frequently Asked Questions Does travel insurance get more expensive closer to the trip? Does travel insurance get more expensive closer to the trip? Knowing when to buy travel insurance can help you plan wisely. While travel insurance doesn’t necessarily get more expensive the longer you wait to purchase, waiting too long can mean losing access to potential plans and coverage options. Your best bet is to buy travel insurance within a few days to two weeks of prepaying or making an initial deposit for your trip. Assuming you’re not booking last-minute, this will provide you with access to the widest possible range of coverage options. It also helps prevent any medical conditions or storms that pop up between booking and buying a plan from ending up as excluded situations, which won’t be covered by your plan. But, generally, many plans do allow you to buy coverage quite close to your departure date. Is there a difference between trip insurance and travel insurance? Is there a difference between trip insurance and travel insurance? Travelers frequently use phrases like “trip insurance,” “travel insurance” and “trip protection” interchangeably, but they do mean different things, according to Stan Sandberg, founder of insurance comparison site TravelInsurance.com. Trip insurance, or trip protection, generally refers to predeparture (or pre-event) coverage if you need to cancel. You may see these plans sold by airlines, online travel agencies or even ticketed event sellers. “You could refer to it as the portion that protects the investment in the trip,” Sandberg says. A travel insurance plan typically includes that — plus more comprehensive benefits to protect you during your trip, from medical coverage to trip delay and lost baggage protections, and many more elements, depending on the plan. Do I need travel insurance for international trips? Do I need travel insurance for international trips? Though travel insurance is typically not required for international trips, your personal circumstances will play a key role in whether it’s a good investment. Consider the following factors that might affect your decision: You’re young and healthy, all your bookings are refundable or cancelable without a penalty, your flights are nonstop, you’re not checking bags and a credit card you carry offers some travel protections. In that case, travel insurance might not be necessary. On the other hand, if you prepaid a large chunk of money for a nonrefundable African safari, you’re going on a Caribbean cruise in the middle of a hurricane season or you’re going somewhere where the cost of health care is high, it’s not a bad idea to buy a travel insurance plan. Consider a few key questions: How well would your health insurance plan cover you if you needed to visit a hospital overseas? How much did you prepay for a hotel or rental car? How much money would you be out if weather or some other flight issue derailed your itinerary? Could you afford an unexpected night in a city where you have a connecting flight? Do you already have a credit card that provides some travel protections? How to maximize your rewards
