Summary: Best Travel Medical Insurance for U.S. Tourists The Best Travel Medical Insurance What Is Travel Medical Insurance? Travel medical insurance for visitors to the U.S. provides short-term medical coverage. It compensates you up to the policy limits for medical expenses if you get sick or injured during your trip. Sometimes called visitors insurance, these policies are designed for non-U.S. citizens traveling to the U.S. for trips lasting a few weeks or a few months, up to a year. For example, travel medical insurance is a common type of travel insurance for parents visiting the U.S. whose adult children live here. Americans traveling abroad can also buy travel medical insurance, often as part of a comprehensive travel insurance policy that covers trip cancellation, travel delays and much more. Types of Travel Medical Insurance for Visitors to the USA There are two main types of travel medical insurance—also called travel health insurance— for visitors to the USA: fixed and comprehensive. Fixed Medical Insurance Fixed travel medical insurance is also called a fixed benefits policy or a limited policy. Fixed benefit plans are more affordable but have limited coverage. These plans have a maximum fixed coverage amount for each medical service or condition. Deductibles apply for each event. For each injury or illness, you pay an initial deductible and the limited medical plan pays for the rest of the expenses covered by the policy. Fixed medical insurance usually doesn’t include trip interruption coverage. Comprehensive Medical Insurance Comprehensive medical insurance policies are more expensive but provide more generous coverage than limited plans—for example, maximum coverage limits can be millions of dollars. There are no sub-limits for coverage with comprehensive visitors insurance policies. You’re covered for medical costs up to the policy maximum, minus your deductible and coinsurance. Trip interruption, trip cancellation and travel delay benefits can be found in some comprehensive visitors insurance plans. What Does Travel Medical Insurance Cover in the USA? The best travel medical insurance policies provide high levels of compensation for medical bills. Comprehensive travel medical insurance for visitors to the USA generally covers inpatient and outpatient services, urgent care and emergency medical services and emergency dental care. It also usually covers other healthcare, such as: Emergency medical evacuation. Emergency medical treatment for pregnancy complications. Mental disorders. Prescriptions/medication. If you’re an American traveling internationally, you can also buy travel medical insurance, often as part of comprehensive travel insurance policies that cover trip cancellation, trip interruption, travel delays, medical costs and much more. How Much Does Travel Medical Insurance For Visitors to the U.S. Cost? The average travel medical insurance for visitors to the U.S. costs $348 , based on our analysis of the best medical insurance for visitors. That’s for two visitors ages 60 and 65 from India coming to the states for 30 days, with coverage of $50,000 with a $100 deductible (or the closest deductible). Company and policy name Policy name Cost for visitors age 60 and 65 from India coming to U.S. for 30 days Cost for a visitor age 70 from India coming to U.S. for 90 days Atlas America $447 $1,148 Patriot America Lite $304 $660* IMG (VisitorsCoverage) Patriot America Plus Patriot America Plus $333 $720* Travel Medical Basic - USA $330 $979 Safe Travels USA $328 $1,139 Where to Buy Visitors Insurance You can buy visitors insurance online from a comparison provider such as VisitorsCoverage, and many travel insurance companies also sell visitors insurance at their websites. You can generally choose from several policies that have a range of coverage and costs, from budget plans with low benefit limits to more expensive policies with generous coverage. Insurance company Examples of visitor insurance policies offered Patriot America Plus, Visitors Protect Insurance and Patriot Platinum Medical Insurance Travel Medical USA Visitor Basic and Travel Medical USA Visitor Choice Safe Travels USA Comprehensive Visit USA-HealthCare Visitors Insurance (Budget Plan, Standard Plan and Superior Plan) Atlas America Find the Best Travel Insurance Plans How to Use Travel Medical Insurance as a Visitor Before you seek treatment, check to see if the provider is in your health plan’s network. Most health insurance companies provide online tools that help you identify providers in your network. You usually pay less out-of-pocket when you get medical care in-network. Some health insurance plans, such as health maintenance organization plans, only reimburse you for medical services when you go in-network. Others, like preferred provider organization plans provide limited coverage when you visit an out-of-network provider. All of our top-rated companies for visitors travel medical insurance provide PPO plans. Your healthcare provider typically submits a claim to your insurance company after your visit. Your healthcare provider will send you the final bill. On the bill, you can see how much you’re responsible for paying after your insurance company has paid its portion. This will depend on your out-of-pocket costs, which vary by plan, but typically include: Coinsurance: Your percentage of health care costs after reaching your deductible, such as 20% of costs paid by you and 80% paid by the insurance company. Health insurance deductible: Your portion of the annual health care costs before the company begins to kick in money. Out-of-pocket maximum: The most you pay out of pocket for in-network care in a year. How to File a Claim with Travel Health Insurance Here is how you generally file a claim on a travel health insurance policy: Carry your insurance ID card. After buying your policy, you should receive a link to your ID card. Print out your card and carry it with you. You will also receive details about your policy that you should keep on hand. Provide policy details. Give your healthcare provider the name of your travel insurance company, your policy certificate number, your member number if you have one and the address where claims are sent. All of this information can be found on your ID card and in your supporting documents. Give your ID card to your provider. Typically, the healthcare provider you visit in the U.S. will call your health insurance company and confirm your benefits. For example, if the travel medical insurance policy you bought provides coverage through UnitedHealthcare, your healthcare provider will call them for you. Your provider will bill your insurer. In many cases your U.S. healthcare provider will bill your health insurer directly. All the information they need will be on your ID card. If your healthcare provider does not bill your insurer directly, you will have to pay for the visit and file a claim to get reimbursed. Be sure to get a copy of your bill from your healthcare provider. You’ll need to submit it with your claim. You should have a claims form in the package of documents you received when you bought your travel medical insurance. If you can’t find it, the travel medical insurance company website may have them available to download. Fill out the claim form and have a copy of your bill on hand. If you have a fixed-benefit plan, you may need an itemized bill from your provider. Keep a copy and mail, fax or email the claim to the health insurance company. Some companies, such as IMG and WorldTrips, allow you to track the status of your claim online. Do I Need Travel Medical Insurance as a Visitor to the USA? Visitors to the USA need travel medical insurance if they want to recoup money they pay for medical costs if they get ill or injured in the United States. Health plans from other countries aren’t usually accepted in the U.S. For example, travel medical insurance is a common type of travel insurance for parents visiting the U.S. whose adult children live here. You also need travel medical insurance if you are a U.S. citizen traveling internationally. It’s important to consider medical insurance for trips abroad because U.S.-based health insurance plans may have limited or no coverage in other countries. Methodology To identify the best travel medical insurance for visitors to the USA, we scored only comprehensive travel medical plans on the following criteria: Cost (50% of score): Plans with lower costs were awarded the most points.We analyzed average rates for: A 70-year-old traveler from India coming to the U.S. for 90 days, with coverage of $100,000 with a $250 deductible (or closest deductible). Two travelers ages 60 and 65 coming from India to the U.S. for 30 days, with coverage of $50,000 with a $100 deductible (or closest deductible). Trip interruption benefits (10% of score): Points were awarded if policies included $10,000 or more in trip interruption benefits. If a visitor has to cut their trip to the U.S. short and return home, this coverage can pay the costs. The reason for the trip interruption must be listed in the policy in order to make a claim. Choices of policy maximum coverage amounts (10% of score): Points were awarded if the policy had maximum medical coverage amounts of $500,000 and up. Urgent care out-of-network reimbursement (10% of score): Policies that cover out-of-network urgent care at 100% (after copay) earned points. Emergency room out-of-network reimbursement (10% of score): Policies that cover out-of-network emergency room care at 100% (after copay) earned points. Emergency dental care (10% of score): Points were awarded if emergency dental care coverage was $300 or more. Read more: How Forbes Advisor Rates Travel Insurance Companies Best Travel Medical Insurance Frequently Asked Questions Do I need travel medical insurance if I have health insurance? Visitors to the U.S. need travel medical insurance if they want to be reimbursed for medical expenses if they get sick or injured here. Health plans from other countries aren’t usually accepted in the U.S. You also need travel medical insurance if you are a U.S. citizen taking a trip to another country. U.S.-based health insurance will have limited or no coverage in foreign countries, so it’s prudent to consider medical insurance for trips abroad. Does travel medical insurance cover pre-existing conditions? Some travel medical insurance policies cover pre-existing medical conditions—usually with coverage caps—but not all do. Many travel medical insurance plans for visitors to the U.S. cover the acute onset of pre-existing medical conditions. This coverage generally provides necessary emergency care for a medical emergency that is life threatening or requires immediate medical treatment if you experience a sudden and unexpected outbreak or recurrence of a pre-existing condition. There are coverage limits, so be sure to read the details of the policy. How far in advance should I purchase travel medical insurance if I’m coming to the U.S.? It’s prudent to purchase travel medical insurance before you get to the U.S., so that you have medical coverage in place. Occasionally, a policy will require purchase at least 30 days in advance if you want certain features, such as a rider to cover pre-existing conditions. Is travel health insurance ever required? Travel health insurance isn’t required to enter the U.S. Still, it can be a smart purchase so that you don’t end up with thousands of dollars in medical bills after an injury or unexpected illness while visiting the U.S. Buy travel insurance in less than 5 minutes Via VisitorsCoverage's Website
