Pest Control Rates in Brooklyn, Queens, and Staten Island Contact us for more information about our pest control rates. We are happy to serve you in Brooklyn, NY, in addition to Staten Island and Queens. We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for 3 hours after the service. Chemicals used are bait gels, liquid pesticides, and growth regulators. *Prices below may vary.* Pest Control Price List: One Apartment One-Family Home Additional Units Cockroach Treatments (German and American) $325 $375 $100 We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are bait gels, liquid pesticides, and growth regulators. Common Ant Treatments $325 $375 $100 We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are bait gels, liquid pesticides, and growth regulators. Mouse Treatments (House Mouse) $325 $375 $100 We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are rodent baits, tracking powders, and traps, where the technician feels they are most effective. Rat Treatments (Norway Rats) $375 and Up We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are rodent baits, tracking powders, and traps, where the technician feels they are most effective. Bed Bug Treatments or Flea and Tick Treatment $650 (One Room) $750 (Two Rooms) $850 (Three Rooms, Etc.) We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are Suspend SC and Gentrol growth regulator, which the technician feels are most effective. Preparations: Because bed bugs are difficult to treat, it is important that you prepare your space for our technicians. In order for us to eradicate your infestation as quickly as possible, we ask that you perform the following prior to your bed bug treatment visit: • Remove All Clothing and Linens from Dressers, Drawers, and Mattresses • Place These Items in a Dryer on High Heat for 30 to 60 Minutes • Place These Items in a Plastic Bag and Tightly Tie Them to Ensure No Bed Bugs Can Re-Enter and Re-Infest These Items During Treatment • Pets Can Be Put in Bathrooms or Taken Out During Services Bee Treatments (Wasps, Bees, Hornets, Etc.) $325 (Under 12 Feet) $375 (12–24 Feet) The customer must be able to identify where bees are nesting or where the hive is located before booking the service. Also, the treatment is only performed at dusk, so most, if not all, bees or wasps are in the nest. Termite Treatments (Subterranean Termites) Starting at $1,800 Chemical application via drilling and pumping the termite solution into the soil that surrounds the structure. (Average Structure: 2-Year Guarantee)
