Pest Control Pricing in NYC REQUEST FREE QUOTE – Call Today 646-568-7150 Affordable Pricing Plans Tailored to Meet Your Budget – For Home and Business in NYC NYC Pest Control Costs and Prices from One Hour Pest Control Ask us how much it costs to control common household pest problems. Bedbugs, Mice, Rats, Ants, Roaches, Flies, Moths, Mosquitoes, Fleas, and much more! One Hour Pest Control has been working with homeowners, multifamily housing/apartments, office buildings, and more, providing a variety of affordable and highly effective pest control and exterminator services throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, the Bronx, Long Island City, and all around the New York City area. Our pest control pricing plans are tailored to you and your needs. We can provide you with an instantly available quote for our products and services by calling us today at (646) 568-7150. We’re always honest and forthcoming with our pricing, and can make sure that your quote is accurate to your needs. How Much Do Our Pest Control Services Cost? Your NYC pest control costs are based on several important factors: Type of Property Type of Pest(s) Type of Service The average cost for our services for homeowners and renters is between $250 and $850. For office buildings, shopping areas, and apartment complexes, industrial buildings, and other large scale pest control, the range may be a bit wider. (Final prices are based on our evaluation of your home or business and actual service provided.) The wide range shows the degree of difference with each service. To help you understand the costs that may go into your service, we look at the following: Type of Property and Pests For someone that owns a home, or is in need of some type of simple, one-time residential pest control service, the prices tend to be on the lower end, especially for non-wood boring pests like ants, spiders, house centipedes, and smaller cockroach invasions. We come to your home, give it a simple and natural spray, and the pest problems go away. For pests that require a more significant service, such as bed bugs, or for commercial properties including restaurants, condo complexes, hotels/motels, and manufacturing plants, the costs are associated with both the size and the number of pests. We’ll do whatever we can to limit the costs so that a pest problem doesn’t hurt your wallet. Types of Services We also offer several different types of services with different pricing models. Here is a better explanation of each of these services, and a price range associated with them: One-Time Insect Removal – Our simplest service, we come to your property, inspect it for pests, and utilize the appropriate treatment to eliminate pests. The price range for this service is $250 to $850. (Final prices are based on our evaluation of your home or business and actual service provided.) Monthly Pest Control Services – The most affordable way to eliminate pests is with a monthly pest control service, which protects your home or property from all types of pests, including ants, cockroaches, mice, rats, and other invading insects. The average cost for the monthly service is only $89 to $249 depending on property size, and your building can remain free of pests all year. (Final prices are based on our evaluation of your home or business and actual service provided.) Exclusion Services – For those that want to prevent pests from entering the home in the future (with or without a current pest problem), our exclusion services are designed to inspect your property for weaknesses and entrance points, and seal them effectively. The price range for this service is $80 to $300. Bed Bug Removal – Bed bugs represent their own unique challenge. They are amazing hiders, difficult to eliminate, and require very special treatments. At One Hour Pest Control, we’re experts at bed bug extermination, with pricing that ranges from only $325 to $950 depending on the extent of the infestation. (Final prices are based on our evaluation of your home or business and actual service provided.) Commercial and Large Scale Partnerships – Our pest control services for office buildings, storefronts, apartment complexes, and other large scale projects are completed on a case by case basis. Our costs are some of the most competitive in all NYC, with a range from $150 to $1250 a month. We will always do our best to offer you the best possible rate for our services, and are willing to compare our rates to those of any of our competitors. (Final prices are based on our evaluation of your home or business and actual service provided.) Emergency Pest Control Services – For those that need emergency assistance for a pest problem such as a rodent infestation in a restaurant or a raccoon invasion in a home, please call us today for pricing. Average Costs of NYC Pest Control There are many common pests that affect New York City, including: Bed Bugs Ants Mice Rats Flies Beetles Fleas Moths Mosquitos Termites Birds Squirrels Opossums Some of these pests are just that – pests. But others can cause damage that can cost thousands to repair, or put you and your family in danger. Termite damage (and, to a lesser extent, carpenter ant damage) can cause a loss to your home’s value of 10s of thousands of dollars. For those allergic to bug bites and stings, bees, centipedes, and spiders can cause life threatening challenges. Even cockroaches – known for being gross – are also known to trigger allergies and asthma in those with sensitivity, due to the allergen they carry on their skin. For businesses, companies that have a pest problem can experience losses of thousands in revenue, or create a negative reputation that can force you out of business. This is why it is so important to have a partner in NYC pest control, and why we always will do our best to offer you prices that you can afford, so that you never go without a pest treatment. The longer a pest problem goes untreated, the more an issue it becomes. Please call us today at (646) 568-7150. We’re more than happy to give you a low, honest quote for our services, and let you know the prices that make us the top choice in New York City extermination. For those in Brooklyn, Queens, The Bronx, Manhattan, Long Island City, and across NYC, please call us today. Common Questions and Answers About Pricing Q: What if the Pest Control Requires Multiple Visits? A: In most cases, the cost we give you is the cost for the entire service, including multiple visits. We stand behind our work, and usually know exactly how many visits are needed and what the cost will be. The only exception is if we discover additional pest control related needs during our visit – such as if we see areas where exclusion may be necessary. You will always be quoted before the service is completed. Q: How Do You Determine Pricing? A: We look at the size of your property, the extent of the invasion, and the type of pest. For most homeowners and small businesses, we offer our lowest possible pricing – prices that are less than most other NYC pest control companies. Q: Do I Need Monthly Pest Control in Winter? A: Not necessarily! If you want to save some money during the winter months, we’ll let you know what that may mean for both your pest control and your pricing. (All prices are subject to change based on physical inspection. Final prices are based on our evaluation of your home or business and actual service provided.) Inspections A thorough building or area inspection will be conducted by one of our licensed exterminators in order to determine the type and extent of pest infestation. The exterminator will then discuss options in relation to the pest infestation in order to determine the most efficient method within the client’s budget. Our pest removal programs are priced by the type and extent of infestation as well as the type of pest removal products required for pest removal. Pest Removal After inspection of infested area the licensed exterminator will meet with the client in order to discuss options for extermination. The pest removal process will be conducted in accordance with local and national pesticide laws and regulations according to the EPA. Pest removal will utilize all available methods of pest control using the safest options first. These include structural maintenance, sanitation, pest monitoring, mechanical/biological control and the careful use of pesticides within a controlled environment.
