Should You Buy a Used Rental Car? It can be a savvy move, if you take the right steps Buying a one-time rental car might seem like a bad idea. For starters, it’s almost certainly been driven by people who may not have treated it with the same care they would if it were their own vehicle. But don’t rule out buying a used rental car just because of that. Where to Go for a Used Rental Car Avis, Enterprise, Hertz, and other rental car companies have websites dedicated to car sales, which outline the terms of their programs and allow you to search inventory by brand, location, price, and other filters. Some may even deliver the car for an extra fee. Smaller rental car companies also sell their used inventory, but some don’t offer additional warranty protections or other perks. “If you’re buying a used rental car, we recommend buying from one of the biggest companies for extra protections and the widest selection of models,” Crossen says. “But you still need to closely review the terms before you buy.” Make Sure You're Protected Some cars may still be covered by the original factory warranty. For those that are not, many companies, including Avis, Enterprise, and Hertz, offer a 12-month/12,000-mile limited warranty from the time of purchase. “I wouldn’t buy from a company that doesn’t offer at least that much coverage,” Crossen says. “It shows that they stand behind the condition of the car.” A year of roadside assistance is another common perk. Enterprise will buy the car back if you change your mind during the first seven days or 1,000 miles. Hertz allows you to rent the car for three days at a special rate for an extended test drive before you buy it. Best Used Rental Cars Your best bet is to buy a reliable model recommended by CR. Refer to CR’s automobile ratings and reliability data to find the models that meet these criteria. The Nissan Altima and the Toyota Camry and RAV4 are all reliable recommended models that are used in rental fleets and should be easy to find. Some of the best used-car deals now can be found among electric vehicles, and rental fleets may still have a few for sale. Crossen says that before buying any used EV or hybrid, you should have the battery health checked by a specialist, and confirm that the battery warranty will still be in effect after purchase. “Used rental EVs may have been charged at DC fast chargers very frequently, which can be hard on the battery,” he says. Budget? Hertz? National? See our review of the best and worst car rental companies. Before You Buy Some rental car companies, such as Enterprise, provide a free vehicle history report for every car they sell. You should also request service records to make sure the car has been maintained regularly. Crossen highly recommends having any used car inspected by an independent mechanic to spot potential problems before you buy. He also suggests making sure it comes with an owner’s manual, floor mats, and two sets of keys. Also, some rental car companies sell used cars that were not rentals. It helps to be aware of the car’s provenance. Either way, a physical inspection and a thorough check of at least two different types of vehicle history report (to rule out potential omissions) is warranted. You can pay for a report from Carfax (a CR partner) or AutoCheck, and you can get free VinCheck reports from the National Insurance Crime Bureau and carsforsale.com, which use the National Motor Vehicle Title Information System (NMVTIS). Any recalls on either rental or nonrental cars should have been addressed. For an idea of how fair the price is, go to CR.org/carvalue. Editor’s Note: This article has been expanded from the version in the September 2024 issue of Consumer Reports magazine.
