Galaxy Z Series Galaxy S Series Galaxy A Series θ For a limited time only, on Samsung.com/Shop Samsung App, or purchase a new qualifying Galaxy device (“Qualifying Purchase”), send in your qualifying trade-in device to Samsung through the Samsung Trade-In Program, and if Samsung determines your trade-in device meets all eligibility requirements, you will receive a trade-in credit specific to your qualifying trade-in device to apply toward your Qualifying Purchase. Device models that currently qualify for trade-in and trade-in credit amounts associated with those models are available on Samsung.com and the Shop Samsung App; eligible models and amounts may change at Samsung’s sole discretion. To be eligible for trade-in, your qualifying device must meet all Trade-In Program eligibility requirements, which include, but are not limited to, that the device powers on, holds a charge, and does not power off unexpectedly; has a functioning display; has no breaks or cracks in the screen (unless a cracked screen offer applies); has no breaks or cracks in the case; has no liquid damage (whether visible or not); has no other defects that go beyond normal wear and tear; is not on a black list; has a verified FCC ID; has been reset to factory settings; has all personal information removed; has all software locks disabled; and is owned by you (leased devices are not eligible). Anticipated trade-in value will be applied as a credit at time of purchase, but, if you do not send in your trade-in device within 15 days of receipt of your Qualifying Purchase, you will be charged back for the trade-in credit applied to your purchase, or if you send in your trade-in device within 15 days of receipt of your Qualifying Purchase but Samsung determines your device does not meet all eligibility requirements, you will be charged back for the trade-in credit applied to your purchase minus $25. Participation in this program does not excuse you from contracts with your carrier or retailer (or any related payments or fees) for the device that was traded in. Limit 1 trade-in per Qualifying Purchase. Samsung reserves the right to modify or discontinue this offer at any time. The Trade-In Program cannot be combined with any other Samsung, carrier or retailer promotions, discounts, or offers unless specifically provided for in the terms and conditions of such offers. Additional terms, including terms that govern the resolution of disputes, apply. Click here to learn more. Maximum trade in credit depends on eligible trade in model; currently eligible trade-in device models and their trade-in credit amounts are available in the Trade In section on the product buy page on Samsung.com and the Shop Samsung App; To be eligible for trade-in, your qualifying device must meet all Trade-In Program eligibility requirements, which include, but are not limited to, that the device powers on, holds a charge, and does not power off unexpectedly; has a functioning display; has no breaks or cracks in the screen (unless a cracked screen offer applies); has no breaks or cracks in the case; has no liquid damage (whether visible or not); has no other defects that go beyond normal wear and tear; is not on a black list; has a verified FCC ID; has been reset to factory settings; has all personal information removed; has all software locks disabled; and is owned by you (leased devices are not eligible). Anticipated trade-in value will be applied as a credit at time of purchase, but, if you do not send in your trade-in device within 15 days of receipt of your Qualifying Purchase, you will be charged back for the trade-in credit applied to your purchase, or if you send in your trade-in device within 15 days of receipt of your Qualifying Purchase but Samsung determines your device does not meet all eligibility requirements, you will be charged back for the trade-in credit applied to your purchase minus $25. Participation in this program does not excuse you from contracts with your carrier or retailer (or any related payments or fees) for the device that was traded in. Limit 1 trade-in per Qualifying Purchase. Samsung reserves the right to modify or discontinue this offer at any time. 1 12/8/25 - 12/28/25, Promotional discount of $150 applies while supplies last, at samsung.com or in the Shop Samsung App when purchasing Galaxy S25+ device. Void where prohibited or restricted by law. 2 12/15/25 - 12/28/25, Promotional discount of $400 applies while supplies last, at samsung.com or in the Shop Samsung App when purchasing Galaxy Z Fold7 device. Void where prohibited or restricted by law. 3 12/15/2025 – 12/21/2025, Promotional discount up to $200 applies while supplies last, at samsung.com or in the Shop Samsung App when purchasing select Galaxy Flip7 device. Void where prohibited or restricted by law. 4 12/15/2025 – 12/28/2025, Promotional discount up to $40 applies while supplies last, at samsung.com or in the Shop Samsung App when purchasing select Galaxy A36 device. Void where prohibited or restricted by law. 5 12/8/25 - 12/29/25, Promotional discount of $150 applies while supplies last, at samsung.com or in the Shop Samsung App when purchasing Galaxy S25+or Galaxy S25FE device. Void where prohibited or restricted by law. 6 12/15/2025 – 12/28/2025, Promotional discount up to $25 applies while supplies last, at samsung.com or in the Shop Samsung App when purchasing select Galaxy A16 device. Void where prohibited or restricted by law. Ω 12/16/2025 – 12/21/2025, Promotional discount up to $100 applies while supplies last, at samsung.com or in the Shop Samsung App when purchasing select Galaxy S25 device. Void where prohibited or restricted by law.
