Hire Blockchain developers Build secure and scalable blockchain applications with experienced developers in smart contracts and DeFi. How to hire Blockchain developer through Lemon.io Place a free request Tell us about your needs Interview the best Onboard the chosen one Testimonials Our clients Need a detailed breakdown of skills, responsibilities, and qualifications? Check out our Blockchain developers job description Job Description Skip the search—hire your Blockchain expert today! Start Hiring What we do for you Sourcing and vetting Expert matching Arranging cooperation Support and troubleshooting Why hire Blockchain developers through Lemon.io? Finding good Blockchain developers for hire is time-consuming and distracting for your team. Simplify and speed up your recruitment with Lemon.io, so your team can focus on their projects. Better talent Our talent specialists are constantly searching for and vetting new talent to add to our pool of 1300+ vetted senior developers. Faster turnaround Traditional hiring takes months, or more. We deliver results within 48 hours, so you can find the perfect dev at the perfect time – now. Guaranteed Be confident with our guarantee. If you aren’t 100% satisfied with your choice, we’ll send you another match for free. FAQ about hiring Blockchain developers How much does it cost to hire Blockchain developers? The cost of hiring a Blockchain developer depends on various factors such as location, experience level, programming language expertise, and more. According to GlassDoor, the average Blockchain developer salary in the US is around $146,250 per year or $70.31 per hour. How much does it cost to run a private Blockchain? The cost of implementing Blockchain software may range from $50,000 to $2,000,000 and more. It depends on the solution’s complexity (a basic App, a decentralized platform, a large-scale network comprising role-specific apps and smart contracts, etc.). Is Blockchain expensive to run? Private blockchains require infrastructure setup and maintenance costs. This may involve cloud hosting, dedicated servers, and other expenses. A private blockchain costs about $1500 a month. How much do Blockchain developers make per hour in the US? GlassDoor reports that the average Blockchain developer salary in the USA is $145,800 per year or $70.10 per hour. Junior positions start at $124,367 annually while most experienced developers can expect to earn up to $185,229. How much does Blockchain Consulting cost per hour? The average hourly rate of a Blockchain consultant is $49.72 in 2024, according to Indeed. How do I get Blockchain developers? You can find them on freelance platforms, job boards, dedicated developer platforms, meetups, conferences, and community platforms, like Indeed or GlassDoor, which feature many niche groups dedicated to Blockchain, Bitcoin, Ethereum, etc. You can also make the hiring process easier by reaching out to Lemon.io. How much does a Blockchain project cost? Making a basic Blockchain app begins at $15,000. For a complex project, it could be as much as $1,300,000. Are Blockchain developers in demand? Yes, Blockchain Developers are in high demand in 2024, since the use of Blockchain in various sectors is increasing. Companies like IBM, Microsoft, and JP Morgan Chase are using Blockchain for greater security, simplicity, and clarity. SMEs are also progressively applying Blockchain for different purposes. Some of these industries include finance, supply chain management, and healthcare since they incorporate Blockchain usage to cut expenses. Furthermore, governments worldwide are exploring technology for methods like, voting, and identity. What is the no-risk trial period for Lemon.io Blockchain developers? Lemon.io provides up to 20 prepaid paid risk-free hours with our Blockchain developer to review how they complete real tasks on your projects. Otherwise, it is a zero-risk replacement guarantee: if the previous developer doesn’t meet your expectations or misses deadlines, we will find a new one for your project. How quickly can I hire a Blockchain developer through Lemon.io You can hire a Blockchain developer through Lemon.io in 48 hours. All the developers have already passed our vetting process, including VideoAsk, their me.lemon profile completion, a screening call with our recruiters including various technical questions, and a technical interview with our developers. Not only will we do our best to make the hiring process fast and comfortable, but we will also match you with the best Blockchain developers in the industry – only 1% of applicants can join the community. Q&A about hiring Blockchain developers What does a Blockchain Developer do? How do Blockchain Developers implement smart contracts? How does Blockchain technology impact data integrity? What is the difference between public and private Blockchains? What are the key challenges in scaling Blockchain networks? What are the environmental impacts of Blockchain technology? Which language is used in Blockchain? How do Blockchain developers manage transaction fees? How do Blockchain developers ensure the privacy of transactions? How does Blockchain technology enhance security in Decentralized systems? How do Blockchain developers integrate Blockchain with existing systems? Is Python used to code Blockchain? What are the most common use cases for Blockchain in business? What are the best practices for testing Blockchain applications? What role does Cryptography play in Blockchain development? Why hire Blockchain developers for remote positions? Competing for exceptional developers can be tough. As you strive to bring in the best, remember that other startups are doing the same. Don’t restrict your talent search — tap into a worldwide talent pool that offers unique skills and perspectives. More skills Hiring enough crypto devs is hard. Connect to a pipeline of global talent so you can find the right dev for you, no matter your specific needs. Less cost A great wage in Croatia barely pays for a condo in San Francisco or L.A. Find great, affordable devs by shopping your project around the world. More flexibility Get the help you need, without overstaffing your startup. Remote contractors help you deal with big projects, without weighing your startup down with excess employees. Less overhead Fixed office costs drive overhead up, with few benefits to your bottom line. Remote contract workers bring their own office, decreasing your need for expensive real estate.
