Image credit: © Depositphotos.com/AndrewLozovyi Using apps for language learning has many advantages. But the selection in 2025 is huge. So the question arises, which of the language learning apps is the right one for me? Our language learning expert Christian has addressed this question, and the result is a list of concrete recommendations for the best language learning apps for the year 2025. Table of Contents Now, here are our general language learning app recommendations. Have fun browsing and trying them out. Top 10 Language Learning Apps: Overview Test Winner: Mondly Rank 1: Mondly The long-term motivator among language courses. Rank 2: Langotalk Still an insider tip: The best AI language tutor & conversation course. Rank 2: Mosalingua The most improved language course with great AI integration. Ranks 4-10 are awarded as follows: 4. Gymglish: Each lesson individually adapted to the learner. (Review) 5. Rocket Languages: Excellent combination of audio and vocab instruction. (Review) 6. Rosetta Stone: Language course and language lessons in one. (Review) 7. Busuu: Language program with great community features.. (Review) 8. Yabla: The YouTube for all (advanced) language learners. (Review) 9. Babbel: Solid language course made in Germany. (Review) 10. Duolingo: A language app for Gen Z – and only Gen Z. (Review) As of: July 2025 The Top 10 Best Language Learning Apps for 2025 in Detail Foreword: We at talkREAL always test all language learning apps over several weeks so that we can particularly assess long-term motivation. In our view, this is enormously important and is decisive for our choice of the Top 10 language learning apps in 2025. Important! Especially with language learning apps, you can quickly pay too much with in-app purchases. Because most providers add the 30% fee of the respective app store on top of the prices. Those who go via the website of the corresponding provider save real money. All links to the language learning apps below therefore automatically refer to the cheapest offer. ᐊ 1 ᐅ Mondly – Long-Term Motivator at an Affordable Price Mondly is the up-and-comer among language learning apps. Not yet very well known, but technically flawless and thanks to excellent motivational elements, you always feel like continuing to learn. Many exciting functions are combined. You can compete with other learners or simply go through the very well-designed language course. And currently, 41 different languages are supported! (As of December 2024) We can only recommend Mondly highly, even if there are still some didactic hiccups here and there. The app and content are also constantly being improved in 2025, and new functions are being added, such as a recent AI chatting functionality. These advantages specifically speak for the Mondly language learning app: Excellent and motivating gamification elements. You just stick with it, great! Technically excellent. Usable on many devices and browsers. Many different languages on offer. Focus on relevant content that also helps the learner. Best value for money Unbeatable offer: All 41 languages and courses for life ᐊ 2 ᐅ Langotalk – The Gold Standard of AI Language Tutors 2024 was the year when, thanks to artificial intelligence, a completely new form of language learning app entered the stage. These are so-called AI language tutors or AI conversation courses. In essence, you can talk and write as you wish from day one of learning. The AI guides the dialogue and corrects if necessary. The trick: I can freely determine the content and exchange ideas with the AI on all topics that interest me and accordingly use them for learning a new language. This is revolutionary. Langotalk particularly impressed us during our comprehensive testing. We even went so far as to call the app the new gold standard. And indeed, there is a lot to be said for Langotalk, and we are keenly following its rapid development. But we can write a lot; it’s best if you try it out yourself: Langotalk also offers the option to unlock the entire app with a one-time payment. This option is only available here on the Langotalk website and not in the app. (All other AI tutors are only available by subscription.) And this is especially interesting because many actions within the app require ongoing use of AI. Which could be extremely costly for Langotalk. But the better for you to get all this at an absolutely affordable rate as a one-time payment. ‒ The Best Language Course of 2025 ‒ We’ve tested dozens of language courses… But only ONE takes the #1 spot! ᐊ 3 ᐅ Mosalingua – Much More Than Just a Vocabulary Trainer “Learn Words, enjoy the world” – with this slogan, Mosalingua modestly presents itself as a vocabulary trainer, yet the provider is now so much more than that. Besides the flashcards, which can be easily supplemented with your own phrases and words, there is also a whole range of authentic content. From learning with music and videos, short stories, and concisely explained grammar lessons, we particularly liked the new AI feature. Thanks to this artificial intelligence, you can practice exciting conversations with Mosalingua and add your own interests to your learning routine with just one click. Excellent! The dictionary is also one of the best on the current market. There’s nothing to complain about price-wise either: The selection of learning languages, now 11 (with more already in prospect), as well as useful bonus courses, speak for themselves. In addition, there is a money-back guarantee and a free trial period. What more could you want? ᐊ 4 ᐅ Gymglish – The Personal “Language Teacher” The Gymglish language learning app surprised us very much in our test. Because no other language course, no other language learning app in 2025 adapts so individually to the learner’s level (with the exception of the new AI language tutors). You get personalized lessons and error corrections, so it feels like learning with a personal language teacher. However, this is hard to describe; you have to test it (free and without obligation). Besides the individualized learning units, you can also set your own interests in the Gymglish language courses, which are named differently in each language – see review. So you can also learn Business Spanish, for example. Furthermore, after 7 days, you get a free assessment of your own learning level, which is also continuously updated the more you learn with Gymglish and the language learning apps. And starting September 2025 you can choose a premium option here, which includes their AI called Aimigo Coach. Thanks to this feature you can chat with Gymglish’s characters (they offer an ongoing funny storyline) after each lesson about the lecture and ask any question you would like. I tested it out and it worked perfectly. ᐊ 5 ᐅ Rocket Languages – Audio meets Vocab Instruction Rocket Languages gets most things right. The program seamlessly integrates a rich audio course with high-quality, text-based lessons, a dedicated cultural component, and engaging vocabulary training to create a well-rounded and effective language course. The system makes it easy for beginners to start, but even learners with some prior knowledge can benefit greatly from its free navigation, allowing them to jump to lessons that are most relevant to their needs. However, this level of quality comes at a cost, as Rocket Languages tends to be on the more expensive side of the spectrum. The platform’s commitment to quality ensures that from the very first lesson, you are immersed in a comprehensive and enjoyable learning experience. The core of Rocket Languages’ appeal lies in its smart combination of an interactive audio course and a powerful vocabulary trainer, though the platform offers much more. Each lesson is crafted with a focus on detail, authenticity, and variety, moving beyond simple repetition to immerse you in practical, real-world dialogues voiced by native speakers. This approach allows you to learn in context, preparing you for real conversations. The program’s dedication to teaching cultural nuances ensures you’re not just learning words, but also how to use them appropriately. After a lesson, you have the chance to practice what you’ve learned through various interactive exercises, solidifying your knowledge and building confidence for your next conversation. ᐊ 6 ᐅ Rosetta Stone – A Different Learning Approach That Works Rosetta Stone only at rank 6? Isn’t this actually an absolute premium language course that also integrates a virtual classroom?! That is correct, and yes, Rosetta Stone is among the best language learning apps on the market. In particular, the extraordinary learning method called “Dynamic Immersion” is wonderful, and you achieve excellent results with it. However, you also have to embrace this learning method, and in terms of motivation, Mondly, in particular, is much better. Nevertheless, anyone who wants to learn in a very natural way and dispense with tedious vocabulary and grammar cramming can hardly bypass Rosetta Stone. And thanks to a long money-back guarantee, you can also test it without any problems. Furthermore, Rosetta Stone lowered their prices over the last few years. You now get a premium language learning experience for fair money. ᐊ 7 ᐅ Busuu – The Language Course with Great Community With its refined concept and intuitive design, Busuu not only fosters a continuous desire to learn but also leads to fast and reliable success. The program offers a truly unique sense of community that is difficult to find in many other platforms. For users who invest in the Premium version, Busuu provides an ideal entry point into language learning, giving them a solid foundation to build upon. Its focus on engaging and practical exercises keeps motivation high, ensuring a consistent and rewarding learning journey for all. Busuu is also a lot of fun! Beyond that, its varied and, most importantly, meaningful exercises ensure constant motivation. The active community encourages the practical application of what you’ve learned, and official language certificates reward users for their hard work. Additional features like the vocabulary and grammar trainers are thoughtfully designed and seamlessly integrated into a clean, user-friendly interface, all of which are complemented by modern AI integration. It’s safe to say that anyone who enjoys a more traditional learning approach will be happy with Busuu. The free basic version is also quite fair, though the Premium version offers immense added value. A final tip: booking through the website, rather than the app, can save you money, and the money-back guarantee (only available on the web) allows you to try out Busuu’s language courses risk-free. ᐊ 8 ᐅ Yabla – The YouTube Among Language Learning Apps Not really a language course in itself, Yabla is nevertheless one of the best language learning apps in 2025. This is especially true for advanced learning and for anyone who wants to prevent their language skills from rusting. Yabla is a collection of authentic videos on an infinite number of different topics, which makes it possible to learn with content that truly interests you. More practical relevance is only found in the new AI courses. All videos are specially prepared for learning, offer voicing, and much more. Of course, there are also corresponding exercises to apply what you’ve newly learned. What’s great for advanced learners, however, means that beginners should initially steer clear of Yabla. They should first lay the groundwork with Mondly and then switch to Yabla later. ‒ Black Friday: Language Special ‒ Saving money never hurt anyone, right? Find the best discounts and exclusive coupons for top language courses here! + + + Limited-Time Deals +++ Some Offers Expiring Soon +++ Don’t Miss Out! + + + And here is some interesting info: For years Yabla had no real competition when it came to learning with videos. This may change now. We are testing a new contender which is called Lingopie. We have not yet come to a final conclusion but if you are interested in Yabla you might want to test Lingopie, too. You can do so by clicking here. ᐊ 9 ᐅ Babbel – Germany’s Most Popular Language Learning App In our review, we once called Babbel the “people’s language course.” The Berlin-based company earned this title through excellently prepared content packaged in an easy-to-use language learning app. However, Babbel has somewhat declined in the past, which is why it has now fallen from rank 2 to 9 in this ranking of the top 10 language learning apps for 2025. The reason summarized: Fewer functions with ever-increasing costs for the Babbel app, and somehow Babbel has lost its own character and is now more one among many language learning apps. Generally, Babbel teaches a new language rather classically with vocabulary and grammar. Anyone who has approached a language this way before will find a great start with Babbel immediately. The provider also tries new features, like Babbel Live – a virtual classroom experience. Unfortunately, they cancelled those language lessons via Babbel Live, without any further notice. ᐊ 10 ᐅ Duolingo – A Language Game for Gen Z Well Duolingo… No other language learning app started as many controversial discussions in our small team, as Duolingo did. Let’s start with what they are good at: Undeniably, they know psychology and use every motivational trick to keep you engaged. For me, a 45 year old guy, it is super annoying and it seems more like a smartphone game with some language learning attached to it. Well, the younger colleagues love it for exactly that as well as Duolingo’s social media. Again, something I couldn’t care less about. The weakest point of Duolingo IMHO are their didactics. I can not choose what to learn and the content they provide sometimes is not useful. Plus, there learning techniques are really nothing special. I think, there are far better language learning apps out there. On the other hand, can millions of learners all be wrong? … Well, if millions of learners are all falling for marketing techniques… ‒ Black Friday: Language Special ‒ Saving money never hurt anyone, right? Find the best discounts and exclusive coupons for top language courses here! + + + Limited-Time Deals +++ Some Offers Expiring Soon +++ Don’t Miss Out! + + + The biggest reason why I always recommend these Duolingo alternatives is explained with one word: Ads. In the free version there are so many ads, it is really annoying. And I can only recommend to rethink watching ad after ad when your brain is actually set to learning new things. Which Language Learning App is Best for Me in 2025? We have seen that a wide variety of different language learning apps have now established themselves on the market. We also encounter different learning approaches. And since each of us learns differently, this is, of course, to be welcomed. To find out which of the top 10 language study apps is now best suited for oneself, one has two options: Test your learning type: The app that best suits my learning type is ideal. This way, you will make the fastest progress. Analyzing your own learning type is very simple. Click here, test your learning type, and receive a comprehensive recommendation of the language study apps that best suit you. On top of that, you get a learning strategy tailored to you. Install, Test, Buy: Install, test, buy – This could be the optimal procedure. If you are unsure about your learning type, then test the various language learning apps and see if they suit you. If not, uninstall and try the next one. Since most apps offer free trial content, this works very well. However, to use the full scope, a few euros usually need to be invested. But if you do this via the provider’s website and not in the app, you usually save 30%. Conclusion: The Best Language Learning Apps for 2025 The selection of language learning apps in Apple’s App Store and Google’s Play Store is huge in 2025. From many dozens of different language programs, I have selected the 10 with which, in my view, one can achieve the best results. Many of the suggested language learning apps can also be combined. Starting out with Mondly and adding Langotalk once you have reached some level of understanding in the language you are learning. Which app it should ultimately be for whom depends, of course, a) on the personal learning type and b) on one’s own challenges. If you’ve had problems “sticking with it” in the past, then you should check out the motivation wonder Mondly. If classic learning isn’t your thing, Rosetta Stone is worth a look. Either way, most apps can be tried for free and bought if liked. Those who do this on the provider’s site usually save the 30% app store fee. Now, I am naturally interested: Which language learning app has made it onto your smartphone? Feel free to let me know in the comments which app is among your favorites. Image credit: © Depositphotos.com/AndrewLozovyi Using apps for language learning has many advantages. But the selection in 2025 is huge. So the question arises, which of the language learning apps is the right one for me? Our language learning expert Christian has addressed this question, and the result is a list of concrete recommendations for the best language learning apps for the year 2025. Table of Contents Now, here are our general language learning app recommendations. Have fun browsing and trying them out. Top 10 Language Learning Apps: Overview Test Winner: Mondly Rank 1: Mondly The long-term motivator among language courses. Rank 2: Langotalk Still an insider tip: The best AI language tutor & conversation course. Rank 2: Mosalingua The most improved language course with great AI integration. Ranks 4-10 are awarded as follows: 4. Gymglish: Each lesson individually adapted to the learner. (Review) 5. Rocket Languages: Excellent combination of audio and vocab instruction. (Review) 6. Rosetta Stone: Language course and language lessons in one. (Review) 7. Busuu: Language program with great community features.. (Review) 8. Yabla: The YouTube for all (advanced) language learners. (Review) 9. Babbel: Solid language course made in Germany. (Review) 10. Duolingo: A language app for Gen Z – and only Gen Z. (Review) As of: July 2025 The Top 10 Best Language Learning Apps for 2025 in Detail Foreword: We at talkREAL always test all language learning apps over several weeks so that we can particularly assess long-term motivation. In our view, this is enormously important and is decisive for our choice of the Top 10 language learning apps in 2025. Important! Especially with language learning apps, you can quickly pay too much with in-app purchases. Because most providers add the 30% fee of the respective app store on top of the prices. Those who go via the website of the corresponding provider save real money. All links to the language learning apps below therefore automatically refer to the cheapest offer. ᐊ 1 ᐅ Mondly – Long-Term Motivator at an Affordable Price Mondly is the up-and-comer among language learning apps. Not yet very well known, but technically flawless and thanks to excellent motivational elements, you always feel like continuing to learn. Many exciting functions are combined. You can compete with other learners or simply go through the very well-designed language course. And currently, 41 different languages are supported! (As of December 2024) We can only recommend Mondly highly, even if there are still some didactic hiccups here and there. The app and content are also constantly being improved in 2025, and new functions are being added, such as a recent AI chatting functionality. These advantages specifically speak for the Mondly language learning app: Excellent and motivating gamification elements. You just stick with it, great! Technically excellent. Usable on many devices and browsers. Many different languages on offer. Focus on relevant content that also helps the learner. Best value for money Unbeatable offer: All 41 languages and courses for life ᐊ 2 ᐅ Langotalk – The Gold Standard of AI Language Tutors 2024 was the year when, thanks to artificial intelligence, a completely new form of language learning app entered the stage. These are so-called AI language tutors or AI conversation courses. In essence, you can talk and write as you wish from day one of learning. The AI guides the dialogue and corrects if necessary. The trick: I can freely determine the content and exchange ideas with the AI on all topics that interest me and accordingly use them for learning a new language. This is revolutionary. Langotalk particularly impressed us during our comprehensive testing. We even went so far as to call the app the new gold standard. And indeed, there is a lot to be said for Langotalk, and we are keenly following its rapid development. But we can write a lot; it’s best if you try it out yourself: Langotalk also offers the option to unlock the entire app with a one-time payment. This option is only available here on the Langotalk website and not in the app. (All other AI tutors are only available by subscription.) And this is especially interesting because many actions within the app require ongoing use of AI. Which could be extremely costly for Langotalk. But the better for you to get all this at an absolutely affordable rate as a one-time payment. ‒ The Best Language Course of 2025 ‒ We’ve tested dozens of language courses… But only ONE takes the #1 spot! ᐊ 3 ᐅ Mosalingua – Much More Than Just a Vocabulary Trainer “Learn Words, enjoy the world” – with this slogan, Mosalingua modestly presents itself as a vocabulary trainer, yet the provider is now so much more than that. Besides the flashcards, which can be easily supplemented with your own phrases and words, there is also a whole range of authentic content. From learning with music and videos, short stories, and concisely explained grammar lessons, we particularly liked the new AI feature. Thanks to this artificial intelligence, you can practice exciting conversations with Mosalingua and add your own interests to your learning routine with just one click. Excellent! The dictionary is also one of the best on the current market. There’s nothing to complain about price-wise either: The selection of learning languages, now 11 (with more already in prospect), as well as useful bonus courses, speak for themselves. In addition, there is a money-back guarantee and a free trial period. What more could you want? ᐊ 4 ᐅ Gymglish – The Personal “Language Teacher” The Gymglish language learning app surprised us very much in our test. Because no other language course, no other language learning app in 2025 adapts so individually to the learner’s level (with the exception of the new AI language tutors). You get personalized lessons and error corrections, so it feels like learning with a personal language teacher. However, this is hard to describe; you have to test it (free and without obligation). Besides the individualized learning units, you can also set your own interests in the Gymglish language courses, which are named differently in each language – see review. So you can also learn Business Spanish, for example. Furthermore, after 7 days, you get a free assessment of your own learning level, which is also continuously updated the more you learn with Gymglish and the language learning apps. And starting September 2025 you can choose a premium option here, which includes their AI called Aimigo Coach. Thanks to this feature you can chat with Gymglish’s characters (they offer an ongoing funny storyline) after each lesson about the lecture and ask any question you would like. I tested it out and it worked perfectly. ᐊ 5 ᐅ Rocket Languages – Audio meets Vocab Instruction Rocket Languages gets most things right. The program seamlessly integrates a rich audio course with high-quality, text-based lessons, a dedicated cultural component, and engaging vocabulary training to create a well-rounded and effective language course. The system makes it easy for beginners to start, but even learners with some prior knowledge can benefit greatly from its free navigation, allowing them to jump to lessons that are most relevant to their needs. However, this level of quality comes at a cost, as Rocket Languages tends to be on the more expensive side of the spectrum. The platform’s commitment to quality ensures that from the very first lesson, you are immersed in a comprehensive and enjoyable learning experience. The core of Rocket Languages’ appeal lies in its smart combination of an interactive audio course and a powerful vocabulary trainer, though the platform offers much more. Each lesson is crafted with a focus on detail, authenticity, and variety, moving beyond simple repetition to immerse you in practical, real-world dialogues voiced by native speakers. This approach allows you to learn in context, preparing you for real conversations. The program’s dedication to teaching cultural nuances ensures you’re not just learning words, but also how to use them appropriately. After a lesson, you have the chance to practice what you’ve learned through various interactive exercises, solidifying your knowledge and building confidence for your next conversation. ᐊ 6 ᐅ Rosetta Stone – A Different Learning Approach That Works Rosetta Stone only at rank 6? Isn’t this actually an absolute premium language course that also integrates a virtual classroom?! That is correct, and yes, Rosetta Stone is among the best language learning apps on the market. In particular, the extraordinary learning method called “Dynamic Immersion” is wonderful, and you achieve excellent results with it. However, you also have to embrace this learning method, and in terms of motivation, Mondly, in particular, is much better. Nevertheless, anyone who wants to learn in a very natural way and dispense with tedious vocabulary and grammar cramming can hardly bypass Rosetta Stone. And thanks to a long money-back guarantee, you can also test it without any problems. Furthermore, Rosetta Stone lowered their prices over the last few years. You now get a premium language learning experience for fair money. ᐊ 7 ᐅ Busuu – The Language Course with Great Community With its refined concept and intuitive design, Busuu not only fosters a continuous desire to learn but also leads to fast and reliable success. The program offers a truly unique sense of community that is difficult to find in many other platforms. For users who invest in the Premium version, Busuu provides an ideal entry point into language learning, giving them a solid foundation to build upon. Its focus on engaging and practical exercises keeps motivation high, ensuring a consistent and rewarding learning journey for all. Busuu is also a lot of fun! Beyond that, its varied and, most importantly, meaningful exercises ensure constant motivation. The active community encourages the practical application of what you’ve learned, and official language certificates reward users for their hard work. Additional features like the vocabulary and grammar trainers are thoughtfully designed and seamlessly integrated into a clean, user-friendly interface, all of which are complemented by modern AI integration. It’s safe to say that anyone who enjoys a more traditional learning approach will be happy with Busuu. The free basic version is also quite fair, though the Premium version offers immense added value. A final tip: booking through the website, rather than the app, can save you money, and the money-back guarantee (only available on the web) allows you to try out Busuu’s language courses risk-free. ᐊ 8 ᐅ Yabla – The YouTube Among Language Learning Apps Not really a language course in itself, Yabla is nevertheless one of the best language learning apps in 2025. This is especially true for advanced learning and for anyone who wants to prevent their language skills from rusting. Yabla is a collection of authentic videos on an infinite number of different topics, which makes it possible to learn with content that truly interests you. More practical relevance is only found in the new AI courses. All videos are specially prepared for learning, offer voicing, and much more. Of course, there are also corresponding exercises to apply what you’ve newly learned. What’s great for advanced learners, however, means that beginners should initially steer clear of Yabla. They should first lay the groundwork with Mondly and then switch to Yabla later. ‒ Black Friday: Language Special ‒ Saving money never hurt anyone, right? Find the best discounts and exclusive coupons for top language courses here! + + + Limited-Time Deals +++ Some Offers Expiring Soon +++ Don’t Miss Out! + + + And here is some interesting info: For years Yabla had no real competition when it came to learning with videos. This may change now. We are testing a new contender which is called Lingopie. We have not yet come to a final conclusion but if you are interested in Yabla you might want to test Lingopie, too. You can do so by clicking here. ᐊ 9 ᐅ Babbel – Germany’s Most Popular Language Learning App In our review, we once called Babbel the “people’s language course.” The Berlin-based company earned this title through excellently prepared content packaged in an easy-to-use language learning app. However, Babbel has somewhat declined in the past, which is why it has now fallen from rank 2 to 9 in this ranking of the top 10 language learning apps for 2025. The reason summarized: Fewer functions with ever-increasing costs for the Babbel app, and somehow Babbel has lost its own character and is now more one among many language learning apps. Generally, Babbel teaches a new language rather classically with vocabulary and grammar. Anyone who has approached a language this way before will find a great start with Babbel immediately. The provider also tries new features, like Babbel Live – a virtual classroom experience. Unfortunately, they cancelled those language lessons via Babbel Live, without any further notice. ᐊ 10 ᐅ Duolingo – A Language Game for Gen Z Well Duolingo… No other language learning app started as many controversial discussions in our small team, as Duolingo did. Let’s start with what they are good at: Undeniably, they know psychology and use every motivational trick to keep you engaged. For me, a 45 year old guy, it is super annoying and it seems more like a smartphone game with some language learning attached to it. Well, the younger colleagues love it for exactly that as well as Duolingo’s social media. Again, something I couldn’t care less about. The weakest point of Duolingo IMHO are their didactics. I can not choose what to learn and the content they provide sometimes is not useful. Plus, there learning techniques are really nothing special. I think, there are far better language learning apps out there. On the other hand, can millions of learners all be wrong? … Well, if millions of learners are all falling for marketing techniques… ‒ Black Friday: Language Special ‒ Saving money never hurt anyone, right? Find the best discounts and exclusive coupons for top language courses here! + + + Limited-Time Deals +++ Some Offers Expiring Soon +++ Don’t Miss Out! + + + The biggest reason why I always recommend these Duolingo alternatives is explained with one word: Ads. In the free version there are so many ads, it is really annoying. And I can only recommend to rethink watching ad after ad when your brain is actually set to learning new things. Which Language Learning App is Best for Me in 2025? We have seen that a wide variety of different language learning apps have now established themselves on the market. We also encounter different learning approaches. And since each of us learns differently, this is, of course, to be welcomed. To find out which of the top 10 language study apps is now best suited for oneself, one has two options: Test your learning type: The app that best suits my learning type is ideal. This way, you will make the fastest progress. Analyzing your own learning type is very simple. Click here, test your learning type, and receive a comprehensive recommendation of the language study apps that best suit you. On top of that, you get a learning strategy tailored to you. Install, Test, Buy: Install, test, buy – This could be the optimal procedure. If you are unsure about your learning type, then test the various language learning apps and see if they suit you. If not, uninstall and try the next one. Since most apps offer free trial content, this works very well. However, to use the full scope, a few euros usually need to be invested. But if you do this via the provider’s website and not in the app, you usually save 30%. Conclusion: The Best Language Learning Apps for 2025 The selection of language learning apps in Apple’s App Store and Google’s Play Store is huge in 2025. From many dozens of different language programs, I have selected the 10 with which, in my view, one can achieve the best results. Many of the suggested language learning apps can also be combined. Starting out with Mondly and adding Langotalk once you have reached some level of understanding in the language you are learning. Which app it should ultimately be for whom depends, of course, a) on the personal learning type and b) on one’s own challenges. If you’ve had problems “sticking with it” in the past, then you should check out the motivation wonder Mondly. If classic learning isn’t your thing, Rosetta Stone is worth a look. Either way, most apps can be tried for free and bought if liked. Those who do this on the provider’s site usually save the 30% app store fee. Now, I am naturally interested: Which language learning app has made it onto your smartphone? Feel free to let me know in the comments which app is among your favorites.
