Flex HR Provides Customized Outsourcing and Consulting Solutions for Companies in the New York, NY HR Outsourcing & Consulting Services Area Flex HR is a full-service HR outsourcing and consulting Human Resources solution for any sized business, small or large. We are your dependable back-office support team for all HR purposes including strategic HR planning, recruiting, onboarding, compliance, managing health benefits, payroll, employee websites and all of the additional aspects of HR. Moreover, we ensure your business is highly functional and is being managed effectively all while remaining fully compliant. Above all, we work within your budget to provide the services your New York, NY business requires. Our localized knowledge in your city, state and surrounding areas is crucial to manage your specific HR requirements. Most important, we have consultants in your area who are ready to support your HR needs right now. Our most requested HR services offered in New York, NY include: We provide as needed, part-time, or interim Human Resource leadership for New York companies. We are a full service HR solutions provider, allowing you to focus on getting back to business We monitor and navigate laws and regulations for professional employment. We discover your unique employment needs and requirements to hire the most qualified candidates. We integrate employees with your culture with our new hire tools, ensuring high levels of retention. Consistently improve the performance of your employees and improve productivity with the use of strategic programs and products. Additionally, companies rely on Flex HR to provide large and small business HR support and help with: Toll Free: 877-735-3947 (1-877-7-FlexHR) Email: info@FlexHR.com Learn how your business can save time and money with HR Outsourcing and Consulting Contact us for a free quote How we do it Our HR outsourcing technology platform EmployeeUniverse™ is uniquely designed for your company and dedicated to effectively managing Human Resources administration responsively and effectively. This HR outsourcing solution provides management a virtual full service backroom Human Resources department that is flexible and has the expertise to support your company’s HR needs. Discover how we can give you the bigger picture with insights into a changing market.
