Paychex HR Services Simplify Administration and Support Compliance Proactive HR advice helps you focus on your business Valued benefits help you attract and retain talent Compliance support keeps you aware of laws and regulations All-in-one HR technology simplifies employee management How Paychex Can Help With Your HR Needs Receive Guidance From a Dedicated Paychex HR Professional Get help navigating challenges so you can focus on running your business. Receive proactive HR advice provided by dedicated HR professionals averaging 8-years of tenure at Paychex as well as guidance from a team of subject matter experts. Assesses your HR needs, customizes an action plan, and helps with implementation Helps you simplify employee relations and management processes Helps to identify employment laws and regulations that may impact your business Helps you establish employee training and development programs to improve performance and loyalty Choose an Industry-Leading HR Technology Platform Manage HR, payroll, and benefits with tools and insights for you and your employees with our best-in-class platforms. Our industry-leading, cloud-based technology gives you greater agility by simplifying complex HR administration functions, freeing up resources, and creating more efficient processes through employee and manager self-service, workflows, and approvals for timesheets, overtime requests, and more. Become an Employer of Choice Take advantage of our HR solutions to help you attract qualified people, streamline the hiring process, efficiently onboard employees, and create a culture that delivers a positive employee experience. Training and development can also be keys to motivating, engaging, and retaining employees. Our online learning management system includes hundreds of trainings with the ability to add your own, including videos, quizzes, and reminders. Benefits Employees Want, All in One Place Gain a competitive edge by offering valued employee benefits that rival those of Fortune 500 companies — including retirement plans, group health insurance, and an employee assistance program (EAP) — supported by seamless enrollment and administration. Support Employee Safety and Get Help with Regulatory Requirements Get assistance with meeting the regulation requirements in your industry and keep employees safe at work with tailored action plans from our team of specialists. We'll help assess your risk exposure and recommend steps to help your business meet OSHA requirements, develop a safety manual, give you access to required employee safety trainings, and provide ongoing expertise and support. Access Analytics and HR Self-Service From Anywhere Turn insights into action with the HR tools and reports in Paychex Flex that track key metrics like hiring, labor costs, and turnover all in one place. Our app also makes HR administration easier for businesses and their employees. Stay Ahead of Complex Regulations Our HR compliance support services can provide access to compliance information to help keep you prepared and on track with ever-growing federal and state employment laws and regulations. This can save you time and money by reducing potential costs from litigation and fines. Celebrate Achievements with Employee Conversations and an Events Calendar Drive alignment, motivation, and collaboration across your business with a robust employee engagement and performance management solution. Job satisfaction and productivity can soar when you provide employees one place to become part of your culture, values, and goals. <p><a class="button-outlined" href="https://www.paychex.com/talent-management">More on Talent Management</a></p> How Paychex Flex ® Works Use Data-Driven Insights Use Data-Driven Insights Make more informed business decisions, uncover trends, compare data against industry benchmarks, and build business cases. Put More Control at Your Employees’ Fingertips Put More Control at Your Employees’ Fingertips Allow your employees to update personal information, set up direct deposit, perform employee/manager check-ins, complete self-evaluations or peer reviews, access tax and payroll documents, and use e-signature on important documents. Connect With Employees in Real Time Connect With Employees in Real Time Paychex Flex allows critical communications to happen in real time. Employees can ask questions, submit requests, report incidents and more, from their desktop or mobile device. Maintain Workplace Safety and Compliance Maintain Workplace Safety and Compliance Establish safety and OSHA compliance programs with professional assessment, education, procedures, and worker classification. It’s also easy to collect workforce data to assist you in complying with federal laws and regulations. Automate HR Efficiency Automate HR Efficiency Automate critical document management activities all in one place. Communicate with employees and request key information in just a few clicks, track important dates to help ensure documents are current, organize documents in customizable categories, and obtain e-signatures. Get Full-Service HR Outsourcing Free your resources and expand your benefits offering with Paychex PEO. Our complete HR outsourcing solution helps you to manage day-to-day business while gaining access to employee benefits and dedicated HR expertise your business might not otherwise be able to afford. Get More for Your Business With Additional Paychex Services Screening and Employee Onboarding Services Once you maximize confidence in your hiring decisions with our employee screening and background check services, create a positive new-hire experience with paperless employee onboarding. HR Compliance Services Our large team of in-house compliance professionals support our HR business partners to help you stay informed of Federal/State employment laws OSHA and safety programs, COBRA, SUI and other legislation that may apply to your business, such as FLSA and FMLA requirements. Risk Management Paychex Insurance Agency offers workers’ compensation insurance to help you meet any state regulations and help reduce the risk to your business. Technology and Service Our HR platform helps simplify HR administration with payroll integration and access to our highly trained support team 24/7. Find the Right Solutions for Your Business Answer a few quick questions and get custom recommendations based on your specific business situation. How Many Employees Do You Have? Pick one: HR Solutions for Your Industry HR is not one-size-fits-all across every type of business. We can help you overcome any challenge that comes your way – like minimizing risk or retaining talent – with customizable technology and support that helps address your issues head-on. The HR landscape A 2023 Paychex Survey 2 reveals what HR leaders are focusing on in the next 12 months. 95% Will Invest in HR Technology 95% of HR leaders plan to make investments in HR technology. 81% Use HR Technology 81% of hr leaders have already, or plan to use HR technology to attract and retain workers. 92% Employee Well-Being Program 92% of HR leaders surveyed have or expect to have an employee well-being support program in the next 12 months. 96% Will Increase Training 96% of respondents say they plan to increase training for at least some employees over the next 12 months, to help them acquire the knowledge and skills they need. Better Together Receives HR Support It Needs to Support Others Trying to coordinate the schedules and placement of hundreds of Direct Support Professionals who work with the intellectually/developmentally challenged population, Director David Neely of Better Together Supports sought needed efficiencies. Working with his HR Professional from Paychex, Neely is able to properly administer paid time off and sick leave, saving precious hours to focus on his clients. “To know that as young company only three years old that we have people who have been doing this for a long time, I can go forward with confidence in the decisions we make because of the knowledge that (our HR Professional) Ashley has given to us.” Wellness Programs Can Help to Better Employee Engagement HR Manager Jason Eller values supporting the employees of West Park Animal Hospital, personally and professionally, and found working with his Paychex HR Professional to be a helpful guide. “My HR Business Partner has been super helpful with situations I’ve never had to deal with before, so it really helped guide us to make educated decisions based on our own culture and organization.” HR Service Solutions FAQ What Are the Different Types of HR? What Are the Different Types of HR? Human resources can include both day-to-day tasks and larger strategic initiatives for a business. These may include, but aren’t limited to, managing employee recruitment and hiring; helping ensure compliance with federal, state, and local laws and regulations; handling payroll; assessing and affecting employee engagement levels; and enforcing workplace policies. How Can HR Help Employees? How Can HR Help Employees? Human resources can have an active role in every step of the employee life cycle. HR teams often play a critical and active role in the following to help employees: Hiring, recruiting, and onboarding — Seeking quality job candidates and filling open positions, applicant tracking, conducting job interviews and background checks, welcoming new hires, and new-hire reporting Employee compensation — Processing payroll and compensation plans Employee benefits — Selecting and administering group health insurance options, retirement plans (including multiple employer plans (MEPs), available through Paychex HR PEO), and other voluntary benefits (dental, vision, FSA, EAP, etc.). Training and development — Access to job pathing, providing learning management resources and performance management. Workplace policies — Communicating and enforcing rules around anti-harassment and non-discrimination, employee leave and time off benefits, and employee conduct, among many others. These are often documented in an employee handbook, which HR usually develops, maintains, and updates, as needed. Employee recognition programs — Recognizing milestones achieved by employees (such as work anniversaries) and work teams. Employee separation and termination — Consulting help on how to terminate an employee and follow requirements related to COBRA benefits, transition plans, maintaining records as required by state, local, and federal law. Company culture — Cultivating and reinforcing company culture, workplace morale, employee engagement, and staff motivation. What Are HR Outsourcing Services? What Are HR Outsourcing Services? With human resources teams having more responsibilities than ever, HR business partner may feel stretched thin or overwhelmed by their workloads as they look to keep up with regulations, manage training and development, attract talent, and administer benefits. HR outsourcing services help relieve the pressure for HR business partner by simplifying HR administration. What Are the Advantages of Outsourcing Human Resource Services? What Are the Advantages of Outsourcing Human Resource Services? By outsourcing some or all your HR responsibilities, you can face these and other challenges head-on, and recoup time to focus on your core business, attract and retain talent, offer world-class benefits, reduce risk, and access industry leading technology. Human resources outsourcing services can help HR teams achieve their goals with solutions such as automated benefits administration, custom HR support, compliance support services, and learning management. An online, mobile-friendly HR platform can help you eliminate inefficiencies and inaccuracies that you may experience when updating and managing data that resides in multiple places. What Does HR Technology Do? What Does HR Technology Do? Having effective HR solutions software is the foundation to any sound HR strategy. An integrated HR technology solution enables a single employee record across multiple areas of the business and allows employers to customize how they use the system based on their specific needs. This includes choosing the modules that make sense for the company, such as recruiting, applications, benefits administration, and time and attendance. This customization lets companies invest in their priorities, helping to make the most important processes more efficient, controlling costs, and making it possible to scale technology when business needs change. Our industry-leading technology gives you greater agility by helping simplify complex HR administrative functions, free up resources, and create more efficient processes. How Much Does Outsourcing HR Cost? How Much Does Outsourcing HR Cost? The cost of an HR outsourcing solution can vary greatly with scalable HR solutions for businesses of all sizes and industries and depending upon your specific HR needs. At every stage of your business, our HR expertise and industry-leading technology can help you to streamline HR functions and give your employees the tools and the time to be more productive.
