Our Fractional HR service is a cost effective solution for small to medium sized companies without an internal HR function New York is celebrated as one of the most employee-friendly states. Although that's clearly a good thing, progressive employment laws can present difficult challenges and risks for employers. Our New York Fractional HR service offers you experienced professionals who can help you navigate the unique challenges of being an employer in the empire state. NorthstarPMO provides a Fractional HR service for small and medium-sized businesses without an internal HR department. While businesses of this size often can't justify a full-time HR professional on staff, all SMEs must adhere to important regulations and practices related to staff relations, payroll, benefits, training, and issue resolution. Our Fractional HR service provides your business with a trusted HR professional (or team of professionals) on a flexible, part-time basis. We function as an in-house department, proactively ensuring the protection of your company and its employees, while also providing ad-hoc, reactive services to your entire organization. Our Fractional HR services are appropriate for organizations with 2-100+ employees, regardless of industry. We can cover you in all 50 states. The real value of a Fractional HR service to smaller organizations comes from having access to critical Human Resources and People Operations expertise without having the expense of a full-time hire. There are several other advantages to Fractional HR - including reduced management overhead, and the ability to get up and running quickly. Our smallest client has just one employee and saves over $10,000 a year with us. Fractional HR can be used to supplement existing in-house resources, or to meet short-term supply and demand issues such as covering a medical absence or helping out with implementation projects. Book a free discovery call with us today to tell us about your challenges, and we'll describe how we can tailor our service to suit you. Booking a discovery call is quick and easy. Simply select a date and time that suits you from the table, and we will take care of the rest. During the call, one of our business experts will talk to you about your needs, and will answer any questions you might have about our company and services. If you'd prefer to contact us by phone or email, you can reach out to us at any time: info@northstarpmo.com +1 617.286.2212
