As HR departments are tasked with doing more with less, something must give. Is your team equipped to lead the charge? By integrating payroll, employee benefits, leave, and HR tech under one coordinated framework, we eliminate inefficiencies, close compliance gaps, and give leaders the confidence of knowing HR systems are as strategic as they are scalable. With a range of customizable and cost-effective HR consulting services and solutions, our HR experts empower leaders to create an environment where all employees operate at their highest potential.​ From reviewing HR systems and culture to reducing turnover and orienting new hires, our HR consultants deliver a wide range of expertise and dedicated support. Assessment of needs and flexible HR Solutions drive strategy and the human experience. HR, payroll, benefits and Leave of Absence support designed to cultivate a solid foundation to shape your human resources. Legal experts who provide compliance guidance, minimizing business risk amid rapid change. Strategic guidance pushing beyond the status quo to transform and differentiate employers. OneDigital’s experts partner with you every step of the journey from assisting with building strategy and selecting partners to implementing new HCM technologies. OneDigital offers various ways to augment and act as an extension of your HR team—ranging from virtual team support to full outsourcing and can be customized to meet your unique organizational needs. Our experienced and highly credentialed consultants help provide information and options to address your important decisions with confidence and enhanced objectivity. Discover emerging employer trends, industry hurdles, and practical solutions to stay ahead of the curve and thrive as a top workplace. Explore the latest compensation trends to attract and retain talent, ensure that compliance requirements are met, and achieve broader business goals. Gain actionable insights from our experts to optimize your HR strategy with a comprehensive review of your practices, policies, and more. As retention and staffing challenges continue to plague employers, many leaders are turning to HR outsourcing to bridge the gap. OneDigital | HR Consulting Ready to empower the potential of your people? Contact our team of HR consultants who can help transform your HR practices, simplify complexity, and optimize your existing investments to unlock efficiencies without sacrificing the employee experience.
