Joined · 9,131 Posts #81 · wbird said: You sure? In NYC I make the car upgrade all the time. Everytime I take a car instead of the subway. When I call an uber with my friends and we upgrade to the premium vehicles. I couldn't imagine riding the bus so I could afford a Rolex. Might add no watch is nice enough to make a NYC bus ride a joy. I get this is a watch forum, but usually most folks don't put their watch ahead of transportation. I mean for the most part a watch only gives you satisfaction. Check that a watch is totally self serving. A car gives your significant other and kids if you have them, satisfaction and comfort. My kids and wife may not notice the watch I'm wearing but they notice the car were in. Ummm what? Not sure where it was presented as a choice of having one or another. But rather which I enjoy and would want upgrades in. It's not a nice watch OR a car. I can afford several nice watches and several nice cars. My point is that driving in NYC and owning a car is a hassle. I have cars for the family and errands and travel out of city. But in the city - 100% I'd take a subway over driving. It can take me 20 mins to get anywhere in Manhattan vs 1.5 hrs of gridlock and another 1 hr of searching for parking in a car. Yes Uber and Taxi is an alternative, but often subway is still faster... and Uber is not exactly car ownership. But when gridlock is so bad I can take photos of watches while in middle of Canal Street... well cars are no fun. My watches and cars - cars are necessity and a PITA, watches are fun Joined · 1,738 Posts #82 · EnderW, you hit the nail on the head! Joined · 3,230 Posts #83 · mmm what? Not sure where it was presented as a choice of having one or another. But rather which I enjoy and would want upgrades in. It's not a nice watch OR a car. I can afford several nice watches and several nice cars. My point is that driving in NYC and owning a car is a hassle. I have cars for the family and errands and travel out of city. But in the city - 100% I'd take a subway over driving. It can take me 20 mins to get anywhere in Manhattan vs 1.5 hrs of gridlock and another 1 hr of searching for parking in a car. Yes Uber and Taxi is an alternative, but often subway is still faster... and Uber is not exactly car ownership. But when gridlock is so bad I can take photos of watches while in middle of Canal Street... well cars are no fun. My watches and cars - cars are necessity and a PITA, watches are fun OP asked if you had to upgrade one at the expense of the other. Granted kind of weird scenario but I doubt you would skip a few options on the car so you could get a nicer watch. Doubt most would tell the wife were going to skip the upgraded audio on the car so I can get a nicer watch. Skip the upgraded tires and rims because my watch needs new shoes. By the way I'm in the city a bunch for work, play, and used to live there before kids. Other than rush hours and special events like when presidents in town, traffic is doable, and garages everywhere. Way better than LA or Tokyo. By the way when NJ Transit and Amtrak started dealing with issues in the summer and all the snow and ice issues this winter driving was way better than the train. I'm sure you don't use the subway 100%, not on date night at the theater or dinner. The thing is even in NYC the folks I know with nice watches have nice cars, or just rent nice cars. Now of course if we asked this question to guy in Venice, car wouldn't matter, but he would probably say he wouldn't skimp on his boat for a nicer watch. Joined · 11,110 Posts #84 · I dont care about cars - they are necessary evils. My present car is 3.5 years old and hasnt done 4000km yet. I'd rather upgrade my watch or my bike instead (eTap and Lightweight wheels.... *drool*) Joined · 22,485 Posts #85 · I have a free company car, so.... bring on the watches! Bremont S300 & Alt1-p2, BB58 & Royal, Longines VHP, SMP and AT, Tag AR & F1, Breitling SOH,Colt. Joined · 1,716 Posts Joined · 41,334 Posts #87 · spidaman said: Every time I'm looking at a new watch, or upgrading my car (or hers), My Beloved chimes in with, "We have to be spending money on the _____." There really is no end to the modifications she wants to do to the place. "Two things are infinite: The universe and a woman's imagination about her house. And I'm not sure about the universe." - after Einstein Joined · 41,334 Posts #88 · EnderW said: Nice to see you wearing some different shirts for once, Ender! :-d Joined · 9,131 Posts #89 · BigSeikoFan said: Nice to see you wearing some different shirts for once, Ender! :-d Now there is a dilemma. Which to upgrade - shirt or watch. Personally a nice quality plaid shirt can be used in almost any situation. I'd still go w watches My plaid is my GADA shirt Joined · 118 Posts #90 · I mean, you are on a watch forum, so.... watch. Joined · 3,738 Posts #91 · The question is flawed by the way since you upgrade cars and flip watches. I guess you can flip cars but when you say flipping cars or houses it’s usually means for profit or a living. When you say flipping watches it’s generally just for pure pleasure and you lose money rather than gain unless it’s a Patek or rare Rolex. I see all of these weird answers by car lovers saying cars are a necessity but watches aren’t so cars. I don’t think that’s the question here. If you already have a CAR to upgrade, the necessity part is already completely taken out of the equation. Maybe the OP can further clarify but I believe the post was framed as pure luxury vs pure luxury, no necessity involved. Joined · 6,258 Posts Joined · 15,887 Posts #93 · back when I lived in Singapore, the idea of getting a car (or even upgrading) was ludicrous at my economic level *LOL* My brother just paid the equivalent of USD 77,000 to buy a 2016 Audi A3 in Singapore. Joined · 151 Posts #94 · I just upgraded my watch, and have a kiddo on the way so I suppose it’s time to upgrade the car. Third row of seating suddenly became a necessity.... Joined · 116 Posts Joined · 29,803 Posts #96 · Toothbras said: I have a free company car, so.... bring on the watches! Is it 12 yards long, 2 lanes wide and 65 tonnes of American pride??? Joined · 22,485 Posts #97 · Gunnar_917 said: Is it 12 yards long, 2 lanes wide and 65 tonnes of American pride??? Lol, I haven't heard that song in years, had to look up the lyrics and laugh again. Remember the episode when homer is riding with Mcbain and asks about the mpg in his hummer and he says, "one highway, zero city" [emoji23][emoji23][emoji23] Joined · 5,753 Posts #98 · Tough question for me to answer, I was 'passionate' about cars long before watches. In fact I've blown a lot of money modding my cars in the past (I wish I had invested the money instead!). I thought I had 'turned the corner' (poor pun) with my most recent car purchase (about 3 years ago) however I'm getting the itch to buy a new one! bmil128 said: Car. In the process of getting these for mine View attachment 13113319 Nice! BBS LMs? I had a set of LM-Rs 'back in the day'! Joined · 12,718 Posts #99 · Lately I really want an Indian... Joined · 1,500 Posts I find watches the better luxury item if you live in a city where commuting is mostly done by public transit and cars are costly to own, fuel, and park. If I did have a car like in the scenario it’d still be watches. There was an article on one of the watch sites(either Deployant or Revolution) about why Singapore has such an oversized market and passion for watches - one reason the author stipulated was due to the automobile being pretty much optional and highly costly. So first big purchase for an up-and-coming professional there is a watch, rather than a car. At least, when you’re holding onto the subway handle for dear life on a packed commute, your Rolex will be shining for all to see
