On-demand luxury cars, private jets, jewellery, watches and even art are gaining popularity The trend of renting luxe products such as cars, jewellery and watches has become increasingly high-end They used to say that money could buy you anything except happiness. Now it seems it can be used to rent anything except that. If the idea of paying for the temporary or fractional ownership of a holiday villa has long been an established idea even for the very wealthy - the same who might lease a private jet or yacht rather than deal with the maintenance costs and hassles - increasingly that idea is being extended to many other top-end products, from clothing to canvasses. While resourceful fashionistas have long known about "It" bag and designer dress rentals - Bag Borrow Or Steal, Rent Frock Repeat and the Hong Kong-based Yeechoo are a few examples - the idea of renting luxury is becoming increasingly high-end. Haute Vault is just one of many companies renting out jewellery, while the former chief marketing officer of NetJets - the aptly-named Randy Brandoff - has founded Eleven James, a concierge service that rents out high-end watches. Hang Art and Art Remba are companies doing the similar with works of art. Cars are a major market - half of the luxury cars in the United States are now leased rather than bought. Global Racing Schools is a company that allows you to rent a Bugatti Veyron - one of the world's rarest cars - for a 700km road trip, albeit at US$69,000 for two people. A few years ago, BMW teamed up with car rental company Sixt to launch the first luxury car-sharing scheme, DriveNow. It hopes to have 1 million registered members by the end of this decade. That name - DriveNow - hints at one reason why the rental model is, like credit, proving popular for those products that not long ago would have been deemed too upscale for what was, until recently, widely considered a downscale option: the lack of consumer patience, and the reluctance to save over time in order to own later. In an on-demand world, waiting to buy is losing the thrill of anticipation it once had. "The fact is that renting makes financial sense in many instances," says Rob Ferretti, chief operating officer for Gotham Dream Cars, which following a recent merger has become the largest exotic car rental company in the US. "In our case it can make practical sense too - if you're travelling a lot, for example. But it's more than that. People with plenty of money - and even though renting was once associated with a lack of money, you still need significant money to rent our cars - probably own an exotic car already. What [you] don't have is the variety [you] want." Sure, borrowed luxury alleviates buyer's guilt, remorse, or just the boredom that can quickly set in once a desired object becomes an owned one. But there are other drivers to this trend. Of course, it chimes with the post-recessionary landscape, making accessible what once only the wealthy could afford to enjoy through ownership. And for some mostly younger consumers, it might be seen to have an environmental benefit - it's not putting yet another car on the road but finding enjoyment and utility in one that's already there. "Still, I'm undecided if the upshot of luxury rental is good for being democratic and keeping a lid on unnecessary consumption, or whether it's distasteful for fuelling the desire," says Rachel Jones, senior consultant to the trends agency WGSN. "It does seem that in this 'me-me-me' world of one-upmanship and selfie-stick narcissism, people want to keep their appearances up and be seen to have the latest bag, newest watch or flashiest car. Clearly it also appeals to the luxury goods obsession many people still have - one which doesn't look ready to wane anytime soon."
