Camera and editing technology has changed rapidly over the course of the past decade. In the past, only a select few trained specialists would take interest in photography, as the equipment and management required substantial knowledge. Now, photography has become far more user-friendly and affordable. Nearly anyone with a powerful camera can explore photography as a medium, and trends in photography show that this field is no longer limited to professionals now! 8 Recent Photography Trends There are more photos today, than ever before! Research into technology and storage has shown that there has been more data usage in the past few years than in the entire history of mankind. The frequency at which everyday individuals take photographs is considered the primary cause. Some of the most common trends in photography include: Phoneography Cameras, smartphones, and tablets have begun to rival professional cameras in terms of quality and software. Any individual with a smartphone or a tablet can easily capture an image, edit it, and post online on various social media websites. Macro Photography Fascination with science and improved camera technology now allows people to take extreme close-up shots of insects, plans, and other never-before-seen images. HDR Photography High Dynamic Range photography allows cameras and images to display greater luminosity that is closer to what the human eye can see. This has become quite popular among photographers. Retro-Style Photography From black and white to sepia, the clarity of modern photography has pushed people back towards classic photos, and the depth behind them. 360 Panorama Now that software can correct for the unsteady hand, panoramas that capture a 360-degree view of a location are becoming popular Day by day. Point and Shoot Size DSLRs Professional cameras are becoming smaller and nimbler, which is attracting not only photographers, but also traditional consumers. Drones Drones are also a popular new photography style, used not only for casual shots, but also at weddings to capture the beauty of the venue. It is especially popular in the real estate industry. Real estate brokers, agents, or property owners use drones to capture aerial images to give a bird's eye view of a property to their customers. Selfie The subject of these photos is changing as well. The "Selfie" has become one of the most well-known trends in photography, but the Selfie Stick allows people to also take group shots of themselves, making it possible to capture an entire group without a photographer out of the picture. Similarly, how individuals share their work has changed. Social media, most notably Facebook and Instagram, make sharing photos and video as easy as a click of the button, which means that both professional and casual photographers can disseminate their work in seconds, rather than in months. Finally, several new brands in both software and cameras have started to make their way in the market, competing with some of the most well-known names, including Nikon, Panasonic, Sony, and Canon. How Do These Trends Effect Photographers, Studios, and Corporations? From a technological standpoint, these trends in photography are bringing more attention to the field than ever before. Social media, for example, pressurizes people into taking more photographs than what was previously deemed necessary, with the expectation that the quality of those photos are even better. For example, in an earlier scenario, a bride and groom may have asked a cousin or friend to take pictures in order to save money, but not anymore! The expectation to share photos on social media is pushing each and every couple to choose professional photographers whom they can trust to click their wedding moments effectively. Society itself is also becoming a more visual place. Photos are used more often in branding and online marketing, opening up doors for both professional and aspiring photographers to get their work out there. But the line between professional and unprofessional is also getting blurred. New software makes it possible for amateurs to edit photos to near-professional standard. That means that trained, expert photographers are being held on to a higher level. As amateur photographers improve, professional photographers need to prove that they are offering real value to their clients, and that they are an artist - not simply an individual with a camera. Our Related Services Adapt to the Latest Photography Trends with Flatworld Solutions For professionals, studios, and more, the recent trends in photography have their benefits and weaknesses. Images can now be used in more places, and the culture itself is becoming one, which encourages professional, higher quality photography. As photos, such as the 360-degree panoramas, become popular in fields like real estate, tourism, and other fields, so too do the needs for quality photographers that can handle the tasks. Yet photography also now has more requirements, including better post-production, greater levels of artistry, and more versatility for the photographer. Having a partner on your side can make it easier to provide the level of production necessary to continue to grow with today's trends in photography. If you would like to learn more about our photography, photo manipulation or image enhancement services, contact Flatworld Solutions today. Contact Us Avail best-in-class services at affordable rates $7 More pricing details /hour Our Customers Join the growth phase at Flatworld Solutions as a Partner Service distributorship and Marketing partner roles are available in select countries. If you have a local sales team or are a person of influence in key areas of outsourcing, it's time to engage fruitfully to ensure long term financial benefits. Currently business partnerships are open for Photo Editing, Graphic Design, Desktop Publishing, 2D and 3D Animation, Video Editing, CAD Engineering Design and Virtual Walkthroughs. Reach out to us for a quick direct response from decision makers at the Flatworld Solutions global team. Live chat with us USA Flatworld Solutions 116 Village Blvd, Suite 200, Princeton, NJ 08540 PHILIPPINES Aeon Towers, J.P. Laurel Avenue, Bajada, Davao 8000 KSS Building, Buhangin Road Cor Olive Street, Davao City 8000 INDIA Survey No.11, 3rd Floor, Indraprastha, Gubbi Cross, 81, Hennur Bagalur Main Rd, Kuvempu Layout, Kothanur, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560077
