Co-authored by Shelby Reyes This article was co-authored by Shelby Reyes. Shelby Reyes is a travel agent and the founder of Reyes Family Adventures based in Denver, CO. Her family of three loves sharing their favorite travel moments, Disney hacks, theme park and cruise adventures guides, travel hacks, and free planning resources. She also specializes in family travel, maximizing your paid time off, working around school breaks and schedules, and finding great deals during high-peak travel seasons. This article has been viewed 332,711 times. If you’re traveling soon, booking a flight is one of the most important parts of finalizing your plans. But between airlines constantly changing prices and the many options of where to purchase your flight, booking can get a little confusing. The following methods will help you successfully book the best flight for your upcoming trip. Best Tips for Booking a Flight Family travel expert Shelby Reyes recommends using Google flights to check out typical ticket prices for when you want to travel and setting up alerts to find out when prices change. Outline your travel plans beforehand to get tickets that fit your schedule. Then, compare the flight times, prices, and what they offer. Booking a Flight Online Think about where you plan or might like to travel, the dates you would like to go, if you just want to book flights or a package deal. Make a list of your plans and have them handy and easily accessible while you book. The more flexible you are on everything from departure and arrival airlines and airports to travel dates and package deals, the more likely you are to get a great deal on your flight. [1] Wednesdays are the generally the cheapest day to travel. . [2] You can often find good deals on last minute flights, especially if you buy in conjunction with a hotel and/or rental car (known as a package deal). [3] Flying from alternative airports can often be cheaper and offer better connection times than large airport hubs. [4] For example, if you want to go to Washington, DC, consider flying to Baltimore Washington International Airport (BWI) instead of National Airport (DCA) or Dulles International (IAD). BWI is just slightly outside of Washington and has excellent transportation into the city from the airport. Reader Poll: We asked 333 wikiHow readers how far in advance they like to get to the airport, and 47% of them said 2 hours. [Take Poll] Consider how early you want to be at the airport when choosing your flight time. Advertisement How much a flight costs varies greatly depending on many variables including the day you book, how far in advance you book, and even the website on which you book. [5] By comparing prices from different sites, you are likely to get the best flight deal. Book approximately six weeks in advance if you can. This will generally give you the best flight options and prices. [6] [7] Tuesdays around 3pm Eastern time are the cheapest time to book your flight. [8] Travel sites collate information on the best flight prices and available times. These include Kayak, Expedia, CheapTickets, and Priceline. Travel sites automatically allow you to compare prices and factor in travel variables. It’s a good idea to compare travel site prices as well, as their respective offers can also vary greatly. Airline websites are also an excellent place to book tickets. It’s not uncommon to find cheaper and better flights on airline sites. [9] For more options, consider one way travel on different airlines for each leg of your trip. [10] As you compare flight offers, keep a list of all relevant details including departure and arrival airports and times, fees, and cancellation policies. This will help you more easily decide on the right flight to purchase. Note if the price includes such items as taxes and baggage fees. Read each flight’s cancellation policies and change fees. Not knowing these in advance can cost you a lot of money and time if you need to cancel or change your flight. Once you decide on the right flight for your upcoming travel, it’s time to buy your ticket. Follow websites prompts. Every site will ask you to fill in information on items such as your name, number of travels, frequent flyer number, seat and meal preferences, and credit card information in order to book. You can usually pay baggage fees and select seats during your booking sessions. It’s a good idea to do this in advance to minimize your time checking in at the airport. If you’re traveling internationally, you will need a passport to confirm the reservation. Decide if you want to pay for extras such as upgrades in seat class or travel insurance. Many travel and airline sites will offer further special deals for add-ons such as rental car or hotel room. Make sure to take these documents to the airport with you on the day of your flight to avoid any questions or problems with your booking. Follow the “24-hour rule.” Within 24 hours of booking your flight, check the prices one last time. If the fare has decreased, call the airline and rebook the flight at the lower price with no penalty. [11] Booking with an Airline or Travel Agent Just as with online booking, think about where you plan or would like to travel, the dates you would like to go, if you just want to book flights or maybe a package deal. Make a list of your plans and have them available while you talk to the travel or airline agent. You can call either traditional travel agents or airline reps to help you find the best flight booking. Give the agent the information on your tentative travel plans. Also let them know pertinent information including your seat preferences, and if you are flexible in your travel dates and airlines. Like with online booking, consider being flexible in your plans for the best prices and times. [12] A good agent will alert you to all of the variables in booking your flight like alternative airports and smaller airlines. They’ll allow you to decide what offer is best for yourself. Call several travel agents and ask them for price quotes. By comparing what different agents offer, you will get the best flight deal. If you find an agent you like but they don’t have the best offer, let them know about the lower price you found and see if they can match or better it. Once you decide on the right flight offer for your upcoming travel, it’s time to buy your ticket. Call the agent and let them know which flight you’d like to book. Answer any questions they may have about items such as available seats or your meal preferences. Ask questions about the booking. Find out about extra fees including taxes, baggage fees, and upgrade costs. Ask about cancellation and refund policies. Make sure to take these documents to the airport with you on the day of your flight to avoid any questions or problems with your booking. Community Q&A QuestionHow long before a flight should I show up at the airport?Community AnswerIt depends on the airport, but the general rule is at least two hours in advance. QuestionHow can I book a flight without a credit card?Community AnswerYou need a credit card to book a flight, unless the airport allows you to pay with cash. QuestionIs it wise to book a flight five months in advance?Community AnswerIt depends on your particular situation. If you have found a good deal and are certain you will be taking that trip at that specific time, go for it. Tips Consider working with a travel agent to book your flight, as they might be able to get tickets at a negotiable rate or discount. [13] Thanks Booking agents are there to help, so don't be afraid to ask questions.Thanks Tips from our Readers Try to book your flight directly through the airline instead of a third-party service because there's usually less hassle around your travel. Consider getting flight insurance to get a refund on your airfare if the flight cancels or if there's a problem. References ↑ Angela Rice. Travel Specialist. Expert Interview ↑ https://qz.com/169299/how-to-avoid-every-common-mistake-when-booking-a-flight ↑ http://www.businessinsider.com/23-secrets-to-booking-cheap-flights-2012-7?op=1 ↑ http://www.businessinsider.com/23-secrets-to-booking-cheap-flights-2012-7?op=1 ↑ https://qz.com/169299/how-to-avoid-every-common-mistake-when-booking-a-flight ↑ http://www.businessinsider.com/23-secrets-to-booking-cheap-flights-2012-7?op=1 ↑ https://qz.com/169299/how-to-avoid-every-common-mistake-when-booking-a-flight ↑ http://www.businessinsider.com/23-secrets-to-booking-cheap-flights-2012-7?op=1 ↑ http://www.businessinsider.com/23-secrets-to-booking-cheap-flights-2012-7?op=1 About This Article To book a flight online, you can either go directly to a certain airline’s website, like JetBlue.com, or visit websites that compare all airlines, like Expedia or Kayak. Follow the website’s instructions for choosing your date and airport, and consider clicking the “My dates are flexible” button for a cheaper, if slightly less convenient, option. Then, follow the website prompts and include the necessary info, like your name and credit card number to purchase your ticket. For tips on how to book a flight through a travel agent, scroll down! Reader Success Stories "I have been having problems booking my tickets ever since I read this. At least I have got some tips on how to do it next time. Thanks a lot."..." more
