These are the best major appliances of 2025 Here’s what we’re excited about this year Written by Danielle DeSiato , Donna Enzmann , and Natalie Nguyen Updated August 14, 2025 Products are chosen independently by our editors. Purchases made through our links may earn us a commission. Funny enough, buying a new large appliance can bring on feelings of both excitement and dread. It can be exciting shopping for something new, especially if you’re upgrading one that’s seen better days or broken, but it can also be overwhelming to make the right choice for such a large investment. Every year, we test and review the latest in large appliance releases and innovations, and we’re here to tell you what has topped our lists most recently. Whether you’re looking for a new refrigerator, dishwasher, range, washer, or dryer, we have a recommendation that stands out. Here are our favorite home appliances, or you can jump to all the 2025 Best of Year awards for our picks across home and life. This year, we’re pleased to award LG as the overall most reliable appliance brand. Factoring in our years of reviewing appliances, reader feedback, user reviews, and the opinions of our peers in the appliance industry, we see LG’s name consistently rising toward the top. While there are some niche brands whose reliability excels in one or two areas, it is noteworthy that LG is a major player in every appliance category—refrigerators, dishwashers, ovens, laundry, and microwaves—and scores well on reliability across the board. To earn customer trust in appliances, your products must do more than work well out of the box. You need a strong warranty and a great service network with ready access to replacement parts. LG is checking all the boxes right now, and we’re happy to see them earn this one. The Bosch 800 Series dishwasher delivers high-tech cleaning performance and unparalleled customization, making it the best dishwasher we've tested. From the PowerControl spray arm to Bosch’s proprietary CrystalDry technology, this dishwasher will clean and dry your dishes better than most dishwashers on the market—and it will do it all in near silence. Plus, this dishwasher is smart. Connecting to the Home Connect app enables even more powerful features, including remote start and cycle customizations. You can even target specific areas for deeper cleaning, meaning there’s no wrong way to load this dishwasher. Pros It cleans even stubborn stains completely Fast cycle times It dries dishes Cons Controls can be finicky Some options only available on app If you're shopping for a top-quality French-door refrigerator and want to spend less than $2,000, the Lowe’s-exclusive Hisense HRM260N6TSE is one of the best options available. There aren't many other models we've tested that offer consistent temperatures, lots of usable storage, LED lighting, and innovative features at this price point. It's an incredible value with no real downsides compared to competitive models, and to be honest, it's one of the best mid-range French-door fridges we've tested. Pros Steady temperatures Lots of usable storage Smart features like LED lighting, through-the-door dispenser and useful extras Cons None that we can find This eye-catching, sleek Samsung Bespoke Induction range isn't just a pretty face. It aced every test we threw at it: boiling water with impressive speed (especially the front-right burner, which has the most wattage), maintaining steady oven temperatures, and baking multi-rack batches evenly. Beyond basic functionality, though, this range also boasts upgraded smart features that we didn't know we needed. The large, 7-inch control panel is intuitive, offering access to local weather and suggested recipes. It can also be connected to smart devices to answer phone calls and monitor your Ring doorbell. Plus, there's an internal oven camera that you can monitor via the SmartThings app (or your Samsung TV or Family Hub refrigerator) to check on food as it cooks or even record time-lapse videos of your creations. With all these impressive features, we were surprised to find that this range comes with a reasonable price tag, especially when compared to other smart induction ranges on the market. Read more about the Samsung Bespoke NSI6DB990012AA Induction Range. Pros Intuitive smart functions Feature-packed Stylish design Speedy boiling Cons Odd burner layout No catches to hold door open With a 5.4-cubic-foot stainless-steel drum, the GE Profile PTW800BPWRS has all the right features to please both traditionalists and new-school laundry doers. If you like to micromanage how your clothes get washed, the PTW800BPWRS has eight cycles, five water temperatures, soil and spin settings, and three rinse levels. However, if you want to set it and forget it, this GE washer still has you covered. Its auto dispenser works for up to 32 washes. The smart wash soil sensor adjusts cycle times based on the dirtiness of your laundry. A built-in voice assistant helps you select the right cycle and remove stains. We chose the GE Profile PTW800BPWRS as the best top-load washing machine because its Normal and Delicates cycles effectively removed a significant number of our testing stains. Pros Good cleaning power Antimicrobial coating, steam, detergent reservoir Large wash drum Integration with SmartHQ voice assistant Cons Loud at times Only comes in one color—Sapphire Blue The Electrolux ELFE7637AT is a feature-packed powerhouse dryer that aces every test we put it through—it’s also the companion dryer to our Best of Year front-load washer (see below). This energy-efficient dryer completed a test laundry load during its standard 90-minute cycle while using lower heat than other brands to be gentler on clothes while drying. Predictive drying enables the machine to make more accurate cycle time estimates, reduce wear and tear, and features a steam cycle that's smart enough to let you bid your iron goodbye. It also has a best-in-class control panel that makes accessing all of the machine’s powerful options a snap. Pros Fast, effective cycles Steam features Cons Quick cycle doesn't get out much water Get the best of both worlds with the GE PFQ97HSPVDS, the best combination washer-dryer we’ve tested. A Microban-coated drum keeps odor and mold away, and the heat pump technology that dries the clothes in the same drum makes it incredibly energy efficient. Even better? Our tests show the GE PFQ97HSPVDS’s wash cycle removes stains better than most dedicated washing machines on the market. Pros Extremely energy efficient Great warranty Smart features Cons Heavy dryer loads may require additional drying time The Samsung Bespoke WH46DBH500EVA3 is a laundry center for consumers who want top-of-the-line washing performance with the space-saving footprint of a stacked combo. In our testing, the WH46DBH500EVA3 was outstanding at removing stains, especially when using the AI OptiWash cycle that automatically adjusts the wash to account for soil level and fabric type. A dual-tank automatic detergent dispenser means you can switch between different types of detergent with ease, and the useful app features make getting your clothes clean a breeze. All in all, this is a machine that makes wash day as effortless as it gets. Pros Excellent cleaning performance Two-tank detergent dispenser Best-in-class smart features Cons Slow cycle times When it comes to all-around cleaning excellence, the Electrolux ELFW7637AT is the best. It excels at removing stains (especially sweat and protein), thanks to a SmartBoost feature that pre-mixes water and detergent for maximum cleaning power, as well as an internal water heater that boosts the water temperature well above the 120°F most home heaters are set to. (We recorded temps above 160 in our testing, making the Sanitize cycle hot enough to kill E. coli.) If you’re a detergent pod user, the Electrolux ELFW7637AT is specifically designed to make the most of them. Pros Extraordinary cleaning power Has its own internal heater Easy-to-read controls Cons A few slow cycles Occasionally smelly gasket Related content best-right-now The Best Quiet Dishwashers of 2025
