Kitchen Appliances Whether you need a quick weeknight dinner or are roasting a Thanksgiving turkey for a houseful of guests, everybody needs to eat. Our in-depth testing of the best appliances on the market includes everything from our pizza ovens review to our favorite pasta makers. We chose those appliances we consider the most essential (or the most fun) and tested the top competitors. Below are our favorite products across the board. Blenders A great blender can be a multitasking queen in your kitchen. Not just for smoothies anymore, some of blenders we tested can crush ice, grind kernels into cornmeal, and more. We have tested models across four different categories, and each has perks depending on your cooking style. Traditional Blender Traditional models are best for all-purpose use, and these days, top-rated blenders can handle just about any task. They are great for whipping up big-batch smoothies for the whole family, blending soup into a creamy puree, or crushing cupfuls of ice for your next bbq. These are our top picks: Best High-End Blender Breville the Super Q 1 2 3 4 5 Best Blender Under $500 Cuisinart Hurricane Pro 3.5 1 2 3 4 5 Best Blender on a Budget Nutribullet Combo 1 2 3 4 5 Bullet Blenders Full-size blenders are very powerful but can be quite expensive and take up a lot of room in your cupboard or countertop. If you are short on counter space or cook for only one or two people at a time, a smaller blender may do the trick. The most useful bullet blenders are small but efficient and perfect for small-scale cooking. They are often easier to clean and stow away afterward. Below are our favorite models: Best Overall Bullet Blender Ninja Fit 1 2 3 4 5 Great Bargain for Food Prep NutriBullet Magic Bullet 1 2 3 4 5 Portable Blenders This style of blender offers a compact and easily portable package where you can store and travel with your smoothie ingredients to blend up later. They can handle a few other blending tasks but typically run on battery power, so they are best used for less intense jobs. After testing the top portable blenders, the model below is our favorite. Best Overall Portable Blender The Original Magic Bullet 1 2 3 4 5 Immersion Blenders Small, handheld blenders can be used to make smoothies, but these versatile machines often include many attachments that can come in handy when making soups and purees, whipping cream, or frothing milk for your coffee. We feel that a good hand blender can be one of the most valuable tools you can have in your kitchen, and the model below is one of top hand blenders we tested. Best Overall Immersion Hand Blender Braun Multiquick 1 2 3 4 5 Bread Machines Making bread can be labor-intensive and time-consuming if you do it entirely by hand. But once you make the switch to homemade bread, it is hard to be satisfied with store-bought brands. Enter these top-rated bread machines. Our favorite options produce consistently great loaves with minimal effort and have different functions that make them more helpful around the kitchen. Best Overall Bread Machine Zojirushi Virtuoso Plus 1 2 3 4 5 Best for Tight Budgets Elite Gourmet Maxi-Matic Programmable 1 2 3 4 5 Food Processors We love a good multitasking kitchen tool; if a food processor doesn't fit that description, we don't know what will. Grating cheese, slicing cucumbers, blending hummus, and mixing dough are just a few tasks that a top-ranked food processor can handle; the possibilities are endless. If you are an experimental cook and need an appliance that can take anything you throw at it, these are our recommendations: Best Overall Food Processor Breville Sous Chef 16 Pro 1 2 3 4 5 A Close Second Best Magimix 4200XL 1 2 3 4 5 Stand Mixers If, like many of us, baking has recently found its way into your collection of hobbies, you'll probably appreciate one of these top-rated stand mixers. Whether you are whipping up a batch of holiday cookies or trying your hand at artisanal bread making, the machines below are our favorite options to save your arm from the grunt work of baking. Best Overall Stand Mixer KitchenAid Artisan Stand Mixer 1 2 3 4 5 Best Mixer on a Tight Budget Aucma 6.5qt 1 2 3 4 5 Griddles Conjuring images of an enormous Saturday morning feast, complete with eggs, bacon, and pancakes, griddles have long been a staple for large families or anyone who needs to feed multiple people without dirtying every pan in the house. Our favorite griddles distribute heat evenly, have a grease management system, and have a surface with good food-release properties. Best Overall Electric Griddle Ninja Sizzle 1 2 3 4 5 Best Buy Electric Griddle Presto Ceramic 22-Inch Electric 1 2 3 4 5 Waffle Makers The pancake vs. waffle debate can be quite divisive, but those who fall on the waffle side tend to love their waffles and have particular expectations for them. Beyond your chosen recipe, a top-rated waffle maker is possibly the most critical factor in making these perfectly crispy, fluffy, chewy breakfast items. We made (and ate) hundreds of waffles to find the best machine on the market. Below are our favorites: Best Overall Waffle Maker Hamilton Beach Flip Belgian 1 2 3 4 5 A Top-Notch Premium Offering Breville Smart Waffle 1 2 3 4 5 Pressure Cookers Modern pressure cookers are more convenient and versatile than ever before. Most are electric and don't require you to leave the stove on, and many have built-in features that allow you to sautee veggies, cook rice, or make yogurt, as well as auto shutoff and “ keep warm ” settings. They are a great one-stop shop type of appliance that can be especially useful for those who like to meal prep. We found the models below to have the best performance in our comparison of the top pressure cookers. Best Overall Pressure Cooker Instant Pot Duo Plus V4 1 2 3 4 5 Runner Up Pressure Cooker Breville Fast Slow Pro 1 2 3 4 5 Slow Cookers While pressure cookers are great at cranking out meals in record time, it is hard to beat the nostalgia of seasoning a large cut of meat, tossing it in the slow cooker, and letting the aroma waft through the house all day. Slow cookers are good if you want the option to open and modify recipes while cooking or if you like to plan your meals ahead of time. The model below is a favorite our favorite traditional slow cookers. Best Overall Slow cooker Ninja Foodi PossibleCooker Pro 8.5-Quart 1 2 3 4 5 Microwave Ovens Microwaves have been a staple kitchen appliance for years, one that many modern-day families could not imagine living without. But the microwave that was “ there when you moved in ” may be outdated or less efficient than some newer models. If you think it may be time for an upgrade, we selected and tested the most popular microwaves, and these are our top choices. Best Overall Microwave Magic Chef MC110MB 1 2 3 4 5 Best Compact Microwave Farberware 700W 0.7 Cu Ft 1 2 3 4 5 Most Versatile Microwave Panasonic HomeChef 4-in-1 1 2 3 4 5 Toaster Ovens One part microwave, one part toaster, one part oven, a toaster oven is a super appliance that comes in especially handy for those with small kitchens or who only cook in small batches. Providing the option to utilize various cooking methods without taking up multiple square feet of counter space can be a lifesaver in small apartments and be quicker to preheat and more energy efficient overall. Our favorite toaster ovens perform comparably to their full-size counterparts (albeit on a much smaller scale), and these are the ones that took top spots in our testing: Best Toaster Oven for Most Ninja Foodi Digital Oven 1 2 3 4 5 Best High-End Toaster Oven Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro 1 2 3 4 5 Best Bang for the Buck Hamilton Beach Easy Reach 4-Slice 1 2 3 4 5 Toasters If all you want to do is heat a slice or two of bread with your eggs in the morning, look no further than an old-school toaster. Many of the options on the market look quite similar, but in our testing of toasters, we found some distinct differences from model to model. If you are looking for perfectly crisped and consistently golden brown bread, these are our recommendations: Best 2-Slice Toaster for Most People Breville Bit More 2 Slice 1 2 3 4 5 Best 4-Slice Mueller UltraToast 4 Slice 1 2 3 4 5 Air Fryers The air fryer is a relative newcomer to the world of kitchen appliances, but the internet caught on fast, and you can find recipes instructing you on how to cook almost anything in these nifty machines. We tested the top air fryers with sweet potato fries, onion rings, donuts, chicken breast, and frozen tater tots to discover which models had the best overall performance. At the end of the day, the real question is, what can't an air fryer do? Best Overall Air Fryer Ninja Air Fryer 1 2 3 4 5 Best Air Fryer on a Budget Ultrean Air Fryer 1 2 3 4 5 Pasta Makers If you are a pasta connoisseur, you will probably agree that the perfect pasta base is essential to a great dish. Whether you're a first-time pasta maker or are fine-tuning an art that you have been working on for years, having a suitable machine can help you produce the ideal noodle. We rolled and re-rolled a simple dough recipe through numerous top-ranked pasta makers, so we could recommend the best to you. Best Overall Pasta Maker Marcato Design Atlas 150 1 2 3 4 5 Pizza Ovens Making a delicious Neapolitan-style pizza isn't usually something a traditional oven can handle; it requires special tools. A home pizza oven provides the higher temperatures and quick cook times needed to achieve the perfect combination of slightly charred crust and gooey fresh toppings. On our mission to find the best pizza oven, we mixed dough, chopped toppings, and ate slice after slice to test each product. While not all models are up to the task, these top-performing ovens cranked out near-perfect pies time after time. Best Overall Pizza Oven Gozney Arc 1 2 3 4 5 Best Value for a Pizza Oven Solo Stove Pi Prime 1 2 3 4 5 Popcorn Poppers No movie night would be complete without a fresh batch of salty, buttery, oh-so-snackable popcorn. We tested different styles and brands of the best popcorn makers to see which ones are the easiest to use and which come closest to that perfect sweet spot of popping the majority of the kernels without burning others. There are many different options, depending on your preferred level of involvement, and these are our favorites: Best Overall Hot Air Popcorn Popper Presto 04820 PopLite 1 2 3 4 5 Best Overall Microwave Popcorn Popper Ecolution Original 1 2 3 4 5 Ice Cream Makers Making your own ice cream is a great way to get creative with the flavors and ingredients of your dessert. You can make delicious ice cream tailored to your flavor palette and branch out into gelato, sorbet, frozen yogurt, or even frozen margaritas! While many machines can be a significant investment, a versatile and top-rated ice cream maker can be a fun way to sweeten your summer BBQs or get your kids involved in a “ build your own flavor ” kitchen activity. Best Overall Ice Cream Maker Whynter ICM-200LS 1 2 3 4 5 Sous Vide Sous vide cooking allows chefs to dial their cooking technique to an exact science, making it nearly impossible to overcook or undercook your food. You can keep your chicken nice and juicy, poach your eggs to perfection, or cook multiple items simultaneously without burning anything. We tested over a dozen machines in our sous vide review to find which ones provide the most consistent results and are the easiest to use. Best Overall Sous Vide Machine Anova Culinary Precision Cooker 3.0 1 2 3 4 5 Budget-Friendly with an App Anova Culinary Precision Cooker Nano 3.0 1 2 3 4 5 Food Dehydrators If you like to avoid processed foods as much as possible but like to have a fully stocked cupboard of ingredients with a long shelf life, or maybe you want a healthy snack without the added preservatives and high price tag, then it may be time to start preserving your own food. Having a food dehydrator can also come in handy if you have a garden and find your fall produce is outpacing your appetite. Any one of these top rated food dehydrators may be a great addition to your kitchen, allowing you to make snackable dried fruit, dry fresh herbs, and preserve ingredients for use in future recipes. Best Mid-Size Food Dehydrator Magic Mill Food Dehydrator 1 2 3 4 5 Best Full-Size Dehydrator Excalibur 3926TB 1 2 3 4 5 Best for Storage Space Brod & Taylor Sahara Folding 1 2 3 4 5 Vacuum Sealers On the other end of food preservation, a top vacuum sealer can come in handy to prep meats, fruits, and vegetables for freezer storage. Alternatively, if you are experimenting with sous vide cooking, vacuum sealing is the most reliable way to ensure water doesn't enter your cooking package. When choosing your machine, you'll want enough power to pull all the air from the bag and enough sensitivity to keep from crushing delicate items like berries. We evaluated multiple models, checking for these abilities, and the sealers below came out on top. Best Overall Vacuum Sealer Nesco Deluxe VS-12 1 2 3 4 5 Best Bang for the Buck Mueller Vacuum Sealer 1 2 3 4 5 Kitchen Scale While a set of measuring cups may do the trick, dedicated bakers know that baking is a science and a food scale is a more precise way to measure ingredients. These mini-sized scales can also come in handy when measuring other lighter-weight items around the house that a bathroom scale might not pick up. Our our favorite kitchen scales are accurate, easy to read and have a surface area large enough for most household items to rest on. Best High Capacity Scale Nicewell 22-lb Digital Kitchen Scale 1 2 3 4 5 Water filter Whether it's to improve flavor, reduce minerals, or remove possible contaminants, choosing one of the top water filters is a good “ just in case ” measure when you're not sure exactly what's in your water. There are many different options, ranging from under-the-sink models to pitcher-style filters that you can leave in the fridge. The best choice depends on your budget and how much you plan to use your filter, but the model below is one of our favorite picks for most people. Best Pitcher Filter Pur Plus 11-Cup Pitcher 1 2 3 4 5 Soda Makers If you can't go a day without your bubbly water, you may consider getting a top-ranked soda maker. These machines can help you reduce waste made from single-use cans, and if you drink enough sparkling water, it can also save you some cash in the long run. If you're craving something subtly sweet, you can create fruit-infused soda or keep it pure with water and bubbles. Below is one of our favorite machines to make top-quality sparkling water in your kitchen. Best Overall Soda Maker FIZZpod Soda Maker 1 2 3 4 5 Juicers Juicing is a creative way to boost your daily nutrient intake and offers a delicious concoction to boot. While maybe not on par with a professional-grade cold-pressed juicer, the top juicers we tested are more accessible, offering a more affordable way to make fresh juice in a home kitchen. If you want the occasional glass of fresh squeezed orange juice, these machines may be more than you need, and one of these citrus juicers could be a good alternative. Best Horizontal Masticating Juicer Ninja Never Clog Cold Press 1 2 3 4 5 Best Centrifugal Juicer Breville Juice Fountain Plus 1 2 3 4 5 Coffee and Tea There are as many ways to make coffee and tea as there are people on the planet, and these morning rituals can become highly personalized and even nostalgic. No matter what kind of warming drink you prefer, we've tested various brewing methods and accessories to help you find the right coffee maker for your morning cup. Drip Coffee Makers Traditional drip coffee makers are popular for households with multiple coffee drinkers or those who drink cup after cup and want a minimal-effort brewing method. Each machine we tested has different strengths and benefits depending on what type of coffee drinker you are, but our favorites are easy to prep and use, extract a quality brew, and offer a quick cleanup when you're finished. Best Tasting Coffee Technivorm Moccamaster KBT 1 2 3 4 5 Best Runner Up Drip Coffee Maker Ratio Six Series 2 1 2 3 4 5 Best Budget Drip Coffee Brewer Ninja 12-Cup Programmable CE251 1 2 3 4 5 Espresso Machines If you are trying to limit your trips to the coffee shop but can't let go of your daily latte, it's time to find a spot for one of our favorite espresso machines in your kitchen. The options range from simple stovetop extractors to fully automated machines with all the bells and whistles. The right device depends on your preferred level of involvement and drink of choice. Best Overall Espresso Machine Breville Barista Express 1 2 3 4 5 Best Espresso Machine on a Budget Breville Bambino 1 2 3 4 5 Best for Tight Budgets Casabrews CM5418 1 2 3 4 5 Single-serve Coffee Makers Single-serve machines take up less counter space, can be more affordable than other coffee machines, and allow you to quickly and easily switch up the types of coffee in between cups. It is handy when two people in a household have different flavor preferences or when one would like to avoid caffeine. We also appreciate that they take up less counter space, making them perfect for smaller kitchens. Below is one of our favorites from our single serve coffee maker review. Best Bang For The Buck Keurig K-Slim 1 2 3 4 5 Coffee Grinders The perfect cup of coffee starts with the perfect bean, and the way that bean is processed and extracted can be almost as important. Grinding your beans fresh before each brew can help preserve flavor and tailor your grind to fit your preferred brewing method. We love these top-ranked coffee grinders for their grind consistency, adjustability, and ease of use. Best Overall Coffee Grinder Breville the Smart Grinder Pro 1 2 3 4 5 Best Bang for the Buck Bodum Bistro 1 2 3 4 5 Milk Frothers While typically found in lattes and other espresso drinks, perfectly foamed milk can be a game changer even for traditionally brewed coffee. Aside from frothing milk, these handy little tools can assist in mixing your powdered drink mixes to a smooth consistency, and some will even heat your milk while they're at it. These are the standout milk frothers from our testing: Best Overall Milk Frother Breville the Milk Cafe 1 2 3 4 5 Best Value for Excellent Texture Instant Milk Frother 1 2 3 4 5 Electric Kettles Electric tea kettles are a kitchen staple in many households. They boil water faster and more efficiently than traditional kettles and can be used for a myriad of kitchen tasks beyond making warm drinks. We tested various models, from large-capacity budget models to high-end gooseneck kettles designed for brewing the best pour over. Our top-ranked electric kettles are listed below: Best Overall OXO Brew Gooseneck 1 2 3 4 5 Best Bang for the Buck Offacy Gooseneck 1 2 3 4 5 Vacuums A vacuum cleaner is essential in any carpeted household. However, even if you have primarily hard flooring in your home, modern vacuums can still come in handy for everyday cleaning, such as hard-to-reach top shelves, between couch cushions, or the floors of your vehicle. Handheld options offer lightweight maneuverability, while heavier-duty canister models bring enough power to pick up almost any mess. Canister Vacuums Canister vacuums have similarly powerful motors to upright models but offer the same lightweight and easy handling as a stick vacuum. They can be a bit gnarly to store because of the odd shape, but if you are willing to accept this flaw, they offer more versatility than many other styles of vacuums. Best Overall Canister Vacuum Miele Classic C1 Pure Suction Powerline 1 2 3 4 5 Best Budget Canister Vacuum Eureka Mighty Mite 1 2 3 4 5 Handheld Vacuums A handheld model can be an excellent auxiliary vacuum to your main machine. These vacuums are small, lightweight, and easily fit into tighter spaces. We looked at highly-regarded handheld vacuums, tested them, and chose the best models for different purposes. Best Overall Handheld Vacuum Shark UltraCyclone Pet Pro Plus 1 2 3 4 5 Best Budget Handheld Vacuum Black+Decker HHVI315JO42 1 2 3 4 5 Robot Vacuums On the flip side, vacuuming the whole house can be a long project if your home is entirely carpeted. A top-rated robot vacuum can help you stay on top of your vacuuming chores while saving you time. Many of the models we used are advertised as “ smart, ” but we tested each one to determine which ones uphold this claim. Best for Most People Roborock Qrevo S5V 1 2 3 4 5 Best Premium Robot Roborock Saros 10R 1 2 3 4 5 Upright Vacuums The upright vacuum is the classic model that has been a staple in every home for the past 50 years. These OG models are self-contained and self-stand for easy storage, and modern versions are typically powerful and versatile enough to handle most household cleaning tasks. Our favorite upright vacuums are listed below. Best Overall Shark Stratos 1 2 3 4 5 Best Compact Eureka QuickShift OmniVerse NEU801BL 1 2 3 4 5 Stick Vacuums We love a good stick vacuum for those who only have a few rugs or a small carpeted area to vacuum. These lightweight models are usually battery-powered, lightweight, and have smaller canisters, all of which make them highly portable but not great for long periods of vacuum action. If this sounds like what you need, then check out our favorite models below: Best for Most People Shark PowerDetect Cordless 1 2 3 4 5 Best Performance at a Premium Price Dyson Gen5detect 1 2 3 4 5 Home Appliances Bed and bath gadgets are here to help with everyday chores and make your life more comfortable, and the best ones do just that. We bought and tested a wide variety of household tools ranging from top hair dryers and scales on the market to the top fans and vacuums of every style. Humidifiers Whether nursing a cold and attempting to decongest your sinuses or you live in a dry climate, a bit more moisture in your home may ease your breathing and feel good on your skin. Choosing the best humidifier to meet your goals can be a bit overwhelming initially, but we bought and tested the top options available today to help you decide. Below are some of our favorites. Best Overall Humidifier Levoit OasisMist 450S Smart 1 2 3 4 5 Best for Convenience Levoit Classic 300S Ultrasonic Smart 1 2 3 4 5 Air Purifiers Do your lungs a favor, and give them some clean air. Pets, dusty carpets, and smoke can all release tiny particles into the air, reducing air quality in your home or office. An air purifier fan help remove these particulates and create a cleaner space. We tested a collection of the top air purifiers to see which ones had the best performance. Best Overall Air Purifier Blueair Blue Pure 311i Max 1 2 3 4 5 Best Bang for Your Buck Levoit Core 300-P 1 2 3 4 5 Best Value Air Purifier for Small Spaces Levoit Core Mini-P 1 2 3 4 5 Portable Air Conditioners Many older homes don't have the luxury of central cooling systems, and you may find that installing one is out of your budget. Enter portable air conditioners. These units are great when you only need ac for a short period each year and don't want an eyesore hanging out in your window during the remaining months. They can move quickly around the house when needed and store out of sight for the rest of the year. The following models are the ones we like the best: Best For Most Houses Midea Duo Smart Inverter MAP12S1TBL 1 2 3 4 5 Best for Large Rooms Whynter ARC-1230WN 1 2 3 4 5 Space Heaters When temperatures drop, you'll think less about ac and more about staying warm. Space heaters are ideal for warming smaller spaces in your home or office, or if you are a perpetually cold person, you may need the extra boost of heat every once in a while. The ideal space heaters are efficient, easy to use, and provide the right amount of warmth when needed. Best Overall Space Heater Vornado AVH10 1 2 3 4 5 Best Direct Heat Honeywell Digital Ceramic HCE322V 1 2 3 4 5 Steam Irons Whether for sewing projects, formal and business wear or for those who like their everyday shirt to be extra crisp, you should reserve a spot in every laundry room for a reliable iron. Steam output, glide, and temperature settings all matter when it comes to clothes iron, and we bought and tested the most popular options on the market to find out which ones make the cut. Best Overall Iron Hamilton Beach Durathon 19803 1 2 3 4 5 Best Premium Iron CHI Lava 13113 1 2 3 4 5 Sewing Machines DIYer's rejoice! We have recommendations on our favorite sewing machines for everyone from the first-timer to the seasoned seamstress. This classic skill can come in handy if you want to skip the tailor and modify your clothes at home, or it can turn into a new hobby, such as quilting. Whatever your sewing goal, a suitable machine can help make your next project fun and breezy. Best Overall Sewing Machine for Most People Brother HC1850 1 2 3 4 5 Best Bang for Your Buck Brother CS5055 1 2 3 4 5 Steam Mops Steam mops are great for tackling stubborn dried-on messes on your tile, stone, or concrete floors. Boasting greater cleaning power and using less water, our favorite steam mops are an efficient way to clean your home. Best Overall Steam Mop Bissell PowerFresh 1 2 3 4 5 Best Mop for Full Home Scrubbing Bissell PowerFresh Lift-Off Pet 1 2 3 4 5 Best for Heavy-Duty Cleaning Dupray Neat Steam 1 2 3 4 5 Hair Dryers A great hair dryer is the base of a perfect hair day. With practice, you can use one to style the perfect blowout at home, but even if you live in a cold climate and can't go outside with wet hair, you will still find value in a good blow dry. We bought and tested various options, ranging from budget to high-end models with all the bells, whistles, and attachments. Below are our favorite hair dryers: Best Hair Dryer for Most People Sam Villa Light Professional Ionic 1 2 3 4 5 Best Hair Dryer at a Premium Price Dyson Supersonic 1 2 3 4 5 Hair Straighteners Blowdryers create a solid base, and we reviewed the top-rated hair straightening irons to help you finish the job and perfect your look. We evaluated glide performance, temperature range, and other features to find our favorite tool. Best Overall Hair Straightening Iron CHI G2 1 1/4" Iron 1 2 3 4 5 Bathroom Scale The most important trait of a top scale is accuracy. We evaluated this function along with aesthetics and others to find which bathroom scales are the best for most people. Whether you are monitoring your weight, measuring gear, or weighing luggage before flying, a bathroom scale can come in handy more often than you would expect. Best Overall Scale Wyze X 1 2 3 4 5 Alarm Clock The way you wake up can influence your mood for the rest of the day. If you can't stomach the idea of using your phone for an alarm or prefer having a highly visible clock to check the time quickly, a top-rated alarm clock may deserve a spot in your bedroom. Best Overall Alarm Clock Amazon Echo Dot 5th Gen 1 2 3 4 5 Best Bang for Your Buck Magnasonic Projection 1 2 3 4 5 Sound Machine If you live on a busy street with lots of ambient noise or live in a house with other people who go to bed later than you, a sound machine is something you can add to your evening routine to help you get a better night's sleep. We used multiple models side by side to find our favorite sound machines to fall asleep to at night. Best Overall Sleep Sound Machine Dreamegg D1 1 2 3 4 5 Fans If you don't have ac in your home, and the heat is starting to get to you, a powerful fan can do wonders for cooling down your space. With options ranging from the top window fan units to our favorite table-top fans that fit on your desk, there truly is a fan for everyone, and we're here to help you choose the right one. Tower Fans Tower fans are convenient because they take up less space, are less of an eyesore in your living room, and can be just as powerful as any other model. We love the ones with features like remote-controlled power and programmable settings. Best Overall Tower Fan Dreo Cruiser Pro T1 1 2 3 4 5 Best Bang for the Buck Levoit Classic 36" 1 2 3 4 5 Window Fans If you are really short on space and looking for an extra kick of cooling, a window fan may be the best choice. These models perch on your window sill and pull in air from outside to replace warm and stale air inside your home. Extendable sides allow window fans to fit the width of most windows, so you don't have any openings after installation. Our favorite options are listed below. Best Overall Window Fan Bionaire Premium Digital 8.5" Twin 1 2 3 4 5 Best Window Fan on a Budget Amazon Basics Manual 9" Twin 1 2 3 4 5 Pedestal Fans Pedestal fans are the classic oscillating models that come to mind when most people think of house fans. While they take up more space than tower fans, they often have more powerful motors and can create a stronger airflow in homes with larger-sized rooms. Our favorite pedestal fans are powerful, stable yet lightweight, easy to move, and easy to clean. Best Pedestal Fan PELONIS Silent Turbo 1 2 3 4 5 Best Choice on a Tight Budget Comfort Zone 3-Speed 1 2 3 4 5 Floor Fans Floor fans are one of the most effective cooling options available, but they can take up more space than other fan styles and are often used in industrial settings. Thanks to their low-centered base, they remain incredibly stable while still providing good circulation. They don't have many extra bells and whistles, but if you need a powerful flow of air and have some room to spare, finding a floor fan is a great option. Best Overall Lasko B-Air Firtana-20X Multipurpose High Velocity 1 2 3 4 5 Power on a Budget Amazon Basic HVF20-SP Industrial Fan 20" 1 2 3 4 5 Table Fans If you like to create your own personal microclimate in the office or at home, alternating a table fan and a tiny space heater is the way to go. The top table fans couple ultimate portability with a small storage size, and you can take these models with you to different parts of your home or workspace. Best Overall Table Fan Honeywell Kaz HT-904 1 2 3 4 5 Conclusion Outfitting your home with new appliances can be fun and exciting. Whether you are moving into your first solo apartment, are looking to upgrade your current household with higher quality products, or need to replace your ten-year-old blender that finally spun its last smoothie. No matter your scenario, we have recommendations to fit any household and budget. If you are a new homeowner looking for more DIY and home improvement supplies, we also have a list of our recommendations for tools.
