1 Marry Old and New Ross Group Creative “When our clients hired us, they had a lot of inherited furniture from their family they wanted to incorporate,” interior designer Maggie Clarke says. The dining tables and side chairs were her client’s grandmother’s, which the designer had refinished to minimize the red tones in the woodgrain. “I love incorporating meaningful pieces into designs,” she says. ”It gives the space soul.” Tour the Entire Home 2 Connect Through Lighting Jessica Sample Designer Tamara Honey connected the open-concept kitchen to its surrounding areas through lighting. “The lights serve a purpose as both working taskers while adding to the architectural and artistic ambience within the space,” says the designer. Tour the Entire Home Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 3 Be Mindful With Storage Michael Clifford “I wanted the kitchen to feel incorporated into that space but without sticking out like a typical kitchen,” designer Adam Ben Wagner says. “I conceived of the cabinetry as full-height bookshelves and storage, reading more like an intimate library space.” A cohesive wood stain across the open-concept floor plan ensures a seamless transition from one space to the next. Tour the Entire Home 4 Think of Everyone Shade Degges Don’t dismiss your guest spaces as you’re remodeling your home. Designer Amber Lewis put this beautiful soaker tub in the guest bathroom that pulls in blues from the bedroom, making visitors feel like they’re staying at a boutique hotel. “This girl does not cut a corner for a single human,” Lewis says of her generous interior design client. “Everybody gets the full experience.” Tour the Entire Home Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 5 Create Unique Touches Shade Degges This speakeasy is hidden behind a bookcase door in the living room, creating a little secret spot for the homeowners to play around with. Amber Lewis chose wave-inspired wainscoting and a custom nautical mural by de Gournay to pay homage to the home’s shoreline location. Tour the Entire Home 6 Play to the Room Size Shade Degges In this small breakfast nook area, Amber Lewis opted for a corner banquette to allow people to easily “scoot around” the table. Otherwise, they’d have to awkwardly push chairs in and out to get around the narrow kitchen. Tour the Entire Home Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 7 Look to Your Own Quirks Ryan Garvin Designer Breegan Jane put this beautiful Moroccan fountain in a guest bathroom to provide “auditory privacy.” The designer says she was inspired by her own “insecurities” when using other peoples’ bathrooms, so she put this in to make it more comfortable for guests. Tour the Entire Home 8 Design for How You Really Live Ryan Garvin Breegan Jane doesn't cook, but she loves to entertain; therefore, she turned her kitchen into a party-ready gathering spot. She added specialty features like disco balls and easy-to-clean, low-maintenance surfaces rather than the best appliances. Tour the Entire Home Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 9 Know Your Environment Carmel Brantley When purchasing a home by the water, it’s essential to prepare for storm seasons. Designer Janie Molster collaborated with her clients, who bought a house on Captiva Island, Florida, to ensure the property could withstand the elements. She incorporated protective features such as storm shutters and high-impact windows, blending durability with thoughtful design to safeguard the home against nature’s challenges. Tour the Entire Home 10 Lean Into the Room’s Proportions Carmel Brantley Designer Janie Molster decided to play into this breakfast room’s extra-tall height. She fell in love with the “dramatic scale” of the draperies, opting for a blue patterned fabric from Etamine. Tour the Entire Home Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 11 Remember That Kids Grow Up Carmel Brantley When designing this grandkids’ room, Janie Molster put in two extra-long twin beds to accommodate the kids are they grow into adulthood. “Twin bedrooms are always fun to design. The symmetry is so pleasing to the eye,” Molster says. Tour the Entire Home 12 Expect Messes to Happen Carmel Brantley “We wanted to create a house that could bend the rules about eating and drinking,” Janie Molster says, so she used performance fabrics to upholster the sofas in this living space. As long as they’re cleaned right, they should look as good as new years from now. Tour the Entire Home Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 13 Find Ways to Add Dimension Nicole Franzen When your small space, like a powder room, doesn’t allow much room for visual dimension, find creative ways to add it in. In this room, designer Kelly Hurliman chose to arch the ceiling to add depth to the space. Tour the Entire Home 14 Make It Inviting Brie Williams A home gym is still a gym, and if the space is cold, dingy, and blah, no amount of convenience will get you to use it. However, designer Tanya Ryno has a fix for that: “If it’s more inviting, you’ll use it.” She and her husband, Jim, of Iron House Design, created this beautiful and serene home gym for our 2024 Whole Home, using calming hues, plenty of fresh air, and luxe finishes to do so. TOUR THE ENTIRE SPACE Related Story: 25 Home Gym Ideas That Are Big On Style Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 15 Ensure There’s Enough Seating Brie Williams If your family is an entertaining bunch, then you need to make sure that your home can comfortably accommodate the number of guests you’d like to bring in. A good rule of thumb, and a way to make sure you don’t over-invite, is matching your living room and dining room seating options, according to designer Dane Austin. “Your living room should be able to seat as many people as you have dining room chairs,” he says. TOUR THE ENTIRE SPACE Related Story: Top 12 Dining Room Trends Designers Are Expecting to Take Over in 2025 16 Look to the Past Brie Williams Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 17 Find Your Grounding Elements Emily Gilbert If your home is filled with patterns, an interior design secret from Colleen Simonds is all about using certain pieces as grounding elements to take a bit away from the busy prints. “The color and glaze on the lamps help balance the tones in the wallpaper,” she explains of this dining room. “The rug was a late—but wonderful—find. The brown is nice and grounding and all the colorful squares bring life and cheerful color to the room. Chic, not serious, and unique. My favorite combination!” TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Related Story: Custom Murals and 7 Other Wallpaper Trends That Will Be Everywhere in 2025 18 Veer Away From Tradition DAN PIASSICK This Texas house didn’t come with a kitchen island, so the team at Fort Design Studio sourced a portable wooden island from Chairish to use instead. Not only does this give the kitchen a wholly unique look, but it warms up the space. It’s okay—even encouraged—to think outside the box when it comes to decorating your home. TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 19 Work Around Your Life DAN PIASSICK In the same Texas home as above, the Fort Design Studio team installed a pullout Rev-A-Shelf spice drawer to the right of the stunning range. Hilary Colia, one of the designers who worked on this project, explains that this “blew [the] client’s mind—she had been storing all her spices in the pantry and walking back and forth when needed.” There are tools out there designed to make your life easier, depending on your lifestyle—if you find them, take advantage of them. TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME 20 Tweak the Layout Adam Macchia “Just by rearranging the space, it feels double its original size,” architect J.E. Schram explains of his remodeled home kitchen. The architect actually took up more space in the remodel, adding about 50 percent more countertop area and 60 percent more cabinet space. However, by simply moving the fridge and the range and hiding away smaller appliances to reduce clutter, Schram made the kitchen feel so much larger. TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Meghan Shouse is House Beautiful 's Digital Editor, and she's been with the team since September 2023. On top of being the magazine's go-to Waco expert, Meghan also touches on quite a few other verticals in the digital space, like hot news content featuring your favorite HGTV stars, home design inspiration, and the latest interior TikTok trends. However, her favorite pieces are the ones that start conversations, such as stories about resale value and whether or not the Solo cup is chic. Before becoming a home writer, Meghan worked in the fashion industry for two years, writing for Harper's Bazaar after graduating from Iowa State University with a bachelor's degree in apparel merchandising. When she's not interviewing interior designers about home trends, you can find Meghan reading a fictional thriller with her cat in her lap, planning themed parties, or strolling through flea markets searching for chunky candle holders and vintage bookends.
