Exercise Equipment for Everybody Choosing the right gear can help you achieve your goals regardless of where you are on your fitness journey. Whether you're building a home gym or just looking for a piece or two, we have researched and tested the top exercise equipment. From cardio to stretching, our team tested the equipment to find the best of the best. Treadmills A treadmill is an excellent investment for enhancing your exercise journey or for those just beginning on one. Some treadmills include a screen and guided workouts to help you reach your goals. At the very least, most include basic settings to control speed and incline, which can be handy when aiming for a certain pace. Whether you're training for a race, building a home gym, or trying to get some cardio in the winter, these top-rated treadmills will keep you moving. Best Premium Treadmill NordicTrack X16 Treadmill 1 2 3 4 5 Best Folding Treadmill Echelon Stride 6 1 2 3 4 5 Best Treadmill without the Apps Horizon 7.4 AT 1 2 3 4 5 Best Budget Treadmill UREVO Strol 1 Pro Foldable Treadmill 1 2 3 4 5 Exercise Bikes Exercise bikes have become one of the most popular fitness equipment. Rightly so, these modern bikes provide excellent low-impact workouts with varying difficulty levels. Some of exercise bikes have integrated screens or mobile apps, including guided workouts and training programs. Exercise bikes maintain a versatility that other equipment cannot, with the ability to provide a strenuous workout or a relaxed stroll. Best Overall Exercise Bike NordicTrack X24 exercise bike 1 2 3 4 5 Best for Spin Classes Peloton Bike+ 1 2 3 4 5 Best Spin Bike for the Money Yosuda Indoor Cycling Bike 1 2 3 4 5 Dumbbells Dumbbells are a classic piece of at-home exercise gear. From bicep curls to walking around the neighborhood, it is important to find a pair of dumbbells that are comfortable, easy to grip, and the right weight for you. Our review of dumbbells cover introductory, adjustable, and progressive sets. Best Overall Dumbbell Rogue Rubber Hex Dumbbells 1 2 3 4 5 Best Dumbbells for Garage Gyms REP Rubber Coated Hex 1 2 3 4 5 Exercise Bands Exercise bands are an excellent addition to a home gym as they are space efficient, versatile, and inexpensive. They are made of latex, nylon, or synthetic rubber and have increased resistance when stretched. They are available in various styles, some with handles for arm and back-targeted exercises. The top exercise bands can be a helpful tool for stretching or increasing the difficulty of body weight exercises. Best Overall Exercise Resistance Band Set Supalak 15-Piece Resistance Bands 1 2 3 4 5 Targeted Training on a Budget Whatafit Resistance Band Set 1 2 3 4 5 Exercise Step Platform Height range, slip resistance, and stability should be top priorities on your list of things to look for when adding an exercise step platform to your home gym. These are our top choices when it comes to split squats, step-ups, and box jump burpees. Best Overall Exercise Step Platform Yes4All Multifunctional Aerobic Deck 1 2 3 4 5 Best Bang for Your Buck HomGarden Adjustable Workout Aerobic Stepper 1 2 3 4 5 Exercise Balls Whether you're looking for a core workout or a new desk chair, an exercise ball can handle the job. Exercise balls are available in various sizes, textures, and support. Firm balls are ideal for sitting and can promote better posture. In contrast, softer balls can make exercises more manageable and comfortable. Throughout our testing process, we aimed to find an excellent exercise ball for stretching, workouts, and sitting. Best Overall Exercise Ball TheraBand Pro Series 1 2 3 4 5 Best Bang for the Buck GalSports Anti-Burst Yoga Ball 1 2 3 4 5 Portable Home Gyms A portable home gym is the right option if you're looking for an all-in-one system. Many have various exercise options, but our favorite portable home gyms include resistance bands, ab rollers, and push-up stands. They come with a guide to different workouts, making them beginner friendly and easy to use. They are also relatively light and portable, so you can easily set up your gym at home or the park. Best Portable Home Gym Gonex Portable Home Gym 1 2 3 4 5 Smooth and Consistent OYO Personal Gym 1 2 3 4 5 Exercise Mats Exercise mats are a vital piece to exercising that often goes unrecognized. These mats are thick foam, providing a helpful cushion for your back, arms, and wrists. When building a home gym, puzzle piece mats are ideal as they can cover a large space with customizable shapes. They are also an excellent option for placing under exercise bikes or treadmills to prevent any damage to your floor. Smaller, portable mats are also available for stretching, yoga, and ground-intensive work. Premium exercise mats have a non-permeable surface that can easily be wiped down. Best Overall Exercise Mat HemingWeigh Extra Thick Foam Exercise Mat 1 2 3 4 5 Best Bang for the Buck ProsourceFit Puzzle Exercise Mat 1 2 3 4 5 Foam Rollers For those experiencing knots and tightness in their muscles, we've tested the top-rated foam rollers to help release tension, relieve soreness, and even increase flexibility. Here are a few that seemed to hit the spot every time we used them: Best Overall Foam Roller TriggerPoint Grid 1 2 3 4 5 Best Vibrating Roller Premvida Arrow Vibrating 1 2 3 4 5 Muscle Roller Sticks For smaller jobs, we've tested muscle roller sticks, which may do the job better. You can target sore spots with more precision and have a bit more control over the amount of pressure you apply. Best Overall Muscle Roller Stick The Stick Travel Stick 1 2 3 4 5 Best Bang for the Buck Kamileo Muscle Roller 1 2 3 4 5 Yoga Mats If you've ever tried yoga on a hard floor, you know how frustrating it can be to slip around from pose to pose. Yoga mats prevent slippage on slick surfaces and provide a stable space on softer ground. These mats are similar to exercise mats but thinner, lighter, and more portable. Roll up your favorite yoga mat and take it to vinyasa class, a grassy park, or the porch, or stay in the comfort of your home. Like exercise mats, yoga mats can easily be wiped down for easy cleaning. Best Overall Yoga Mat Manduka PRO 1 2 3 4 5 Great Value for Versatility Iuga Eco Friendly Non Slip 1 2 3 4 5 Why Trust GearLab Our team has been researching and testing the best exercise equipment available for nearly a decade. We start by studying the market and evaluating the most promising products. We then purchase those products for hands-on testing. Our team develops metrics and a rating system to uphold a non-biased approach. Then, we note which products performed well and award them accordingly. Throughout our exercise testing, we developed metrics to represent different exercise skill levels and experiences appropriately. Additionally, we understand that the more enjoyable the exercise equipment is to use, the more effective it will be. Our OutdoorGearLab exercise team has extensive industry knowledge and spent many sweaty weeks testing this equipment. Among our experts is our Senior Mountain Bike Review Editor Joshua Hutchens. When not on his bike, his fitness routine includes a blend of running, weight lifting, and yoga. Joining Joshua is ultra-marathoner and fitness junkie Ally Arcuri. With a degree in kinesiology, a yoga teaching certification, and 6 years of experience as a physical therapist, Ally has a thorough knowledge of fitness and recovery. Senior reviewer Andy Wellman is an avid ultrarunner, climber, skier, and yoga teacher. Andy understands how vital stretching and recovery can be for an active lifestyle. Rebecca Glades, review editor, trains in jiu-jitsu and is no stranger to injuries, which is why she is a strong advocate for active recovery and stretching. Together, this team of enthusiasts researched, tested and reviewed these award-winning products. Testing the comfort of the RBX Push-Up Bars through a series of exercises. Credit: Hayley Walker The Bowflex Treadmill 22 includes a huge 22-inch touchscreen with pre-programmed workouts. Credit: Chris McNamara Putting our core to the test during our exercise ball evaluation. Conclusion Whether you're trying to stay healthy without leaving the house, add variety to your exercises, or just starting your fitness journey, you have plenty of options. The market is saturated with great fitness choices, so finding the right gear can be intimidating. However, we hope we've made finding the right exercise equipment easier based on your goals, experience, and budget.
