ANOTHER YEAR, ANOTHER round of new fitness gear. We know you’re hitting the new year, new you hard, and whatever your fitness devotion—deadlifter, gym rat, hiker, trail runner, cyclist—there’s a seemingly endless stream of gear that’s purpose-built just for you. But which of that gear do you actually need ? And what’s worth buying? Every year, our in-house fitness experts, certified trainers, and gear testers research (and test) all of the best new product releases so you don’t have to. We torture-test the best-reviewed home gym equipment, log hundreds of miles in state-of-the-art running shoes, put down hundreds of lifts in the latest cross-training shoes, and spend dozens of hours steaming in the newest saunas—all in the name of science and recovery, and to narrow down our selection of the year’s best of the best. In total, we are adding our seal of approval to more than 90 products across five different categories (plus a grouping of Editors’ Picks). We hope this helps inform your own fitness pursuits for this month and beyond. This is the 2025 Men’s Health Fitness Awards. Jump to: Cardio Training Strength Training Outdoor/On-The Go Training Recovery Apparel Editor's Picks Play head-to-head games, watch Netflix, cycle with a coach, or just take a virtual ride—this ultra-gamified bike offers nearly a dozen ways to get more motivated to pedal. Translation: Month after month, you’ll never be bored with your daily cardio with this exercise bike. If you’re looking for the top in tech, this is it. Horizon proves you don’t have to spend north of $2K for a solid treadmill. The 7.0 AT checks all our must-have boxes, including a quiet motor and fast speed/incline changes. Plus, it plays nice with Apple GymKit, Peloton, and a wide range of apps via Bluetooth. And the 60-inch-long running deck is long enough for just about anyone to run without issues. Fast and durable with next-level features, NordicTrack’s 2450 is a gym-quality, commercial-grade treadmill for your home. It’s incredibly stable for a folding treadmill, too, and built to last. The 24-inch pivoting touchscreen delivers trainer-led workouts and interactive iFIT streaming to mix up your daily training seshes. What we love most is that the speed and incline auto-adjust, making it easy for a hands-free gym-like run at home. With a sleek, curved silhouette (almost like a “wave”—get it?) and a smaller, lighter design now available in multiple colorways, the Wave Rower is purpose-built for modern apartment dwellers since it folds and stores well. This rower seriously transports us, mimicking the experience of rowing on water thanks to the 16-inch HD screen—but also because the electromagnetic resistance is supersmooth. Despite its compact size, we can still do hard sprints or longer intervals. Simply put, this rower can do it all. When it comes to cardio machines, the rower reigns supreme. That’s because rowers not only allow you to push your heart rate to the max but also duplicate two key motions you need for life: hinging at your hips and rowing with your midback muscles. And the RowErg is built for purists, setting the standard for rowing machines: It lets you row with power and push the tempo with a variable resistance profile that works whether you’re sprinting all-out for 500 meters or taking on a 10K. For athletes who go hard, Echo Bike V3.0 is Rogue’s latest and engineered to be the strongest, most durable fan bike of 2024. We’ve used all versions of the Echo Bike for the past seven years, and we swear by its solid-as-a-rock construction and the punishing workouts it doles out. It requires serious power to move this bike. Once you do get it going, though, it pedals smooth as can be. Curved treadmills are great for reducing impact and can be placed anywhere because they’re non-motorized. That essentially means the user’s movement is what powers it, which can ensure it works your hamstrings in ways standard treadmills may not. This budget-friendly version of AssaultRunner’s TrueForm has appeared multiple times in the CrossFit Games, and for good reason: The thick rubber belt is ultra-comfy and heavier-duty, allowing you to run much, much faster. Considering that other good curved treadmills go for much higher, we think this one is a tremendous value. If you’re in search of a curved treadmill and only the best will do, then Technogym delivers with the Batman-worthy Skillmill. It sports next-gen Multidrive Technology that makes it unlike any other curved treadmill we’ve tried, letting you add or subtract resistance. That means you can sprint on it and also use it for sled pushes. When you buy a Peloton, you’re really buying the community. Its Bike+ is fairly straightforward outside of the eye-popping 24-inch rotating touchscreen. And that’s what plugs you into a deep library of live and on-demand cardio, strength training, and yoga classes led by charismatic trainers. While it’s our best overall exercise bike, do keep in mind that it requires a monthly membership and clip-in pedal shoes—which enhances the class experience by accommodating the resistance changes. This freestanding piece’s deceptively simple design combines a traditional heavy bag with a high-traction base that can hang with your most intense striking sessions. For anyone who’d rather not drill a hanging chain into their home gym’s ceiling, this is the pick for you. We’re especially excited about the new quick-swap system, which allows the base to be used with other boxing components such as reflex bags, making the most of your fighting area. Protect those hands like a professional during your next boxing workout with this elite pair designed by striking coach Owen Roddy and Raf Montes, an engineer who worked on gear for the Navy SEALs. The highlight of these boxing gloves is the strap, which gives you the security of a hand-laced model without requiring a coach to tie them on. Our go-to adjustable dumbbell set here at Men’s Health , SMRTFT’s Nüobell, is an impressive piece of strength equipment, elegant enough to sit anywhere in your home or gym. Switching weights is as simple as a click to the left or the right. The bulletproof all-in-one steel design provides endless versatility for lifts up to 80 pounds. Strong, versatile, and dead simple to use, this collab-created power sled is our fave for 2024. The four prongs set you up to push and pull with ease, and you can stack up to 330 pounds on the center pole. The Centr sled slides easily on turf and feels ultra-sturdy. Most home gyms have to rely on resistance bands to simulate gym cable crossover machines. The Voltra 1 seeks to change that, offering a bevy of resistance profiles and up to 200 pounds of resistance in a tiny machine that clips easily onto any power rack. Expect to do cable flies, curls, and Pallof presses with this bad boy—and train power, too. Originally designed specifically for pro athletes, this machine is great for slow, high-resistance reps, but where it really shines is in those explosive movements that truly build athleticism. The compact design makes it portable enough to take anywhere, yet it’s rugged enough to last for years. This unique cable machine solution sets you up to do everything from cable biceps curls to flies to Romanian deadlifts, thanks to a unique (and challenging) form of magnetic resistance. It boasts a few other impressive features, too, including a music player and a variety of resistance profiles that simulate things like resistance bands and chains. The best part: Men’s Health fitness director Ebenezer Samuel, CSCS, discovered it lives up to the hype. The clever, space-saving Pivot packs the flexibility and versatility to transform any spare room in your house (or even your garage) into your own fully equipped gym. For the same price as any quality rack, it saves you a ton of floor space while helping you get in all those fundamental lifts we love. Upgrade to the Ultimate or Full Monty package for even more options. Elevate your training with this lightweight, streamlined vest that’s purpose-built for agility and speed drills, as well as those go-to bodyweight moves. We find the Omorpho G-Vest Sport easy to strap into (not the case with all weighted vests), and the six-pound design hits the sweet spot to make it versatile enough for a wide range of workouts. Our favorite tactical brand also delivers our favorite plate carrier vest. This isn’t your typical weighted vest; this is for the most hardcore users, the ones who love crushing WODs at the gym or at home. The TacTec Plate Carrier is streamlined for maximum comfort and range of motion, with the durability to carry serious weight for your hardest strength-training seshes. No home gym is complete without a great bench, and it never pays to skimp on the essentials. Sure, you could find a flimsy option for less, but who wants a bench that’s going to rock back and forth when you’re holding the big dumbbells? Prime’s adjustable model is our go-to of the year, with a comfortable, versatile, easy-to-use design and durability. The Men’s Health team likes this rack so much, it’s the one we have in our own gym! For those who want to save a little space without sacrificing versatility and functionality, this half rack delivers in a big way. It pairs twin training uprights with twin storage uprights for maximum efficiency in the tightest possible spaces, giving you all the room you need for those big squats or deadlifts. Dumbbells are one of the first fitness buys for most homes—no gym is complete without a solid set. These rubber-encased pieces from Living Fit are just that, with a wide range of weight options, from 5 to 100 pounds. We like the simple design with the no-roll ends and knurled handles for better grip. Trade your boring, old-school kettlebells for this hardworking set from the badass brand and perennial MH favorite Onnit. Its primate-inspired Primal kettlebells are forged from cast iron, and the fierce primate faces may help you unlock the beast within. They aren’t just designed to look cool, either; they’re also workout workhorses, with wide handles that make it easier to find the best grip for swings and squats. This open trap bar from REP offers a wide array of movements, as opposed to a standard trap bar, which limits you to a few. With a perfectly balanced counterweighted design and an integrated deadlift jack, this is one of the smoothest-lifting trap bars we’ve ever used. Powder coating and hard-chromed steel add grip, durability, and a handsome finish. It works especially well when paired with REP’s Black Bumper Plates. Deceptively simple and ridiculously strong, this is one pull-up bar to rule them all. Men’s Health fitness director Ebenezer Samuel, CSCS, recommends this design to friends and training clients alike. Properly installed, it supports up to 400 pounds. Bonus: The dirt-cheap price tag makes this an easy buy for any home gym. Rogue’s MIL Pull-Up Station is the pinnacle when it comes to freestanding pullup bars. Not everybody wants to buy a whole rack for pullups or drill holes into their wall, and we like the ability to easily move your bodyweight training outdoors whenever you want. This particular piece of equipment is trusted by the U.S. Army for its latest Combat Fitness Test, so you can rest assured it can hang with the toughest of workouts. For a gym piece as simple yet essential as a barbell, you almost always get what you pay for. And let’s be frank: When you’re lifting the heavy weight, the last thing you want is to be concerned about the reliability of your bar. We are big fans of REP’s flagship barbell, from the Cerakote shaft to the knurled grips. When it comes to plates, your home gym can never have too many. If you are serious about training, you probably have a few different pieces of equipment that require plates to fulfill their purpose, from barbells to trap bars. We’re big fans of this colorful set from Living Fit, which gives you 160 total pounds to play with (pairs of 5 lbs, 15 lbs, 25 lbs, and 35 lbs). Since these are encased in rubber, unlike traditional iron plates, they won’t wake up the household every time you throw one on the floor. No home gym is complete without dumbbells, but buying multiple sets can cost a lot of money and a lot of room. This well-built adjustable pair from Hammer Strength goes from 5 to 100 pounds while only taking up a few feet of floor space. And thanks to the quick-switch system, you can change the weight with ease during your set. Specialized earns its name with the consistent quality of the road bikes it produces. We are big fans of this model’s lightweight aluminum frame, crisp-shifting Shimano drivetrain, and design for every rider size, shape, and skill level. The Rockhopper is the one do-it-all two-wheeler when your budget allows for just one. Rucking, an incredible workout, requires a special kind of backpack to carry the weight. GoRuck’s flagship Rucker 4.0 is made for exactly that, with reinforced construction, extra padded straps, and plenty of handles. But what we really love is the pack’s versatility. Not only can it carry real weight, but thanks to its sleek and stylish design, it can seamlessly transition to commuter or work bag. Thule is one of the most trusted names in outdoor gear, and when you put on this pack, you’ll know why. With a durable waxed canvas shell and a 25-liter capacity, the AllTrail is perfect for day hikes and impromptu trail exploring. The two low-key colorways ensure it’s well suited for urban exploration, too. Riding a Cervelo down well-paved roads is the closest we’ve come to flying while still on the ground. When you’re ready for a premium upgrade, the Áspero delivers. It’s purpose-built for speed and aerodynamics, and it has a long list of upgrades over the previous generation to help maximize your on-road performance. A simple set of looped resistance bands can help make any bodyweight workout more challenging, intensifying pushups and squats and letting you do moves like biceps curls, too. REP Fitness’s multi-weight set is perfect for travelers or anyone who needs an affordable “anytime” workout option. Bored with the pushups and lunges of bodyweight training? A suspension trainer helps you mix things up, offering a blend of instability and novelty that can challenge your muscles (particularly your core!) in new ways. TRX’s flagship Pro4 offers military-inspired, pro-grade construction with an all-new signature camo-woven design that looks great, too. Paired with a clever mobile app, BlazePod’s small, light-up pods are built to improve your reaction time with clever games, tests, and analytics. Not only that, but when paired with bodyweight exercise or speed drills, the kit can truly elevate your fitness. And it delivers something underrated to any workout experience: fun. If you’re always on the go (like our editors), then the Theragun Mini should be in your gym bag. Weighing less than 1.5 pounds, this thing is light. While it doesn’t deliver as deep a massage as the Theragun Pro, it still offers plenty for nearly all situations. We like it for loosening our IT bands and chest. For a full-size (yet still incredibly lightweight at less than 2.5 pounds) massage gun, the Hypervolt 2 is our go-to. It’s everything we love about Hyperice’s OG model, but lighter, more powerful, and more comfortable to hold. It’s a very accessible massage gun, perfect for just about anyone. These slides from Oofos utilize the brand's patented supportive foam technology that’s made it a perennial MH must-have. That means absorption of impact and less stress on joints. After a rough training session, it’s so much easier not having to pull anything over sore feet. These are favorites among our runners when it comes to recovery shoes. Plunge’s aptly named All-In tub is the model for anyone who’s dying for an ice bath. It looks great on any deck or in any room, pairs with its own smartphone app, and chills down to a bone-chattering 37°F. It’s also huge and can fit humans up to 6'9" (including Aaron Judge). Yes, it’s very expensive. But if you want the Rolls-Royce of ice baths, look no further. If space and, more importantly, your budget are limited, the Ice Pod boasts next-gen ice bath tech at a fraction of the cost of most alternatives. It’s insulated and sturdy enough for both indoor and outdoor use. While it won’t give you the experience of lying down, the price and minimal footprint make it a wise choice. Temperature can play a vital role in sleep quality each night. And the new Eight Sleep Pod 4 mattress cover provides quieter cooling and heating, plus sleep tracking, without the need to replace your mattress. All are legitimate upgrades over the Pod 3. It’s truly the Cadillac of sleep tracking and temperature regulation. Sunlighten proves you don’t need a ton of space in your home for a personal sauna. The compact mPulse Aspire provides just enough room for one individual, with all the infrared health benefits of premium alternatives. From $4,999 . This roomier, two-level sauna accommodates up to four adults comfortably. It’s delivered standard with a Finnish-built Harvia heater, and the cedar exterior makes it a handsome addition to any backyard space. If getting steams in is something you aspire to do regularly, give this one a look. With a combination of recovery-focused tech, the Venom Go is like a wearable heating pad and mini massage gun in one. It offers nine total treatment combos and three levels of heat, allowing you to dial in the exact degree of aahhhhh you’re looking for. The Move+ proves that legit red-light therapy really can be portable. The unit is easy to carry around, and it’s just as easy to set up, allowing you to stay relaxed as you focus the lights on sore joints and muscles. It’s a safe, go-anywhere package that’s surprisingly affordable. Lululemon’s next-level recovery solutions go well beyond apparel. This simple two-in-one device has an exterior roller to massage your arms and legs and an interior one for relieving back tension. The inner roller, with its deep ridges, is our go-to for rolling out our backs and thighs. Hyperice’s vibrating foam roller is our favorite one out there. We’ve been using it for years and love the three speeds, which let us dial in the perfect level of massage needed. The medium-firm density hits the sweet spot for most people, and at 13 inches, it’s perfect for rolling out your rhomboids and paraspinals. If compression boots are part of your recovery, Hyperice’s Normatec Elites have seven compression levels, four hours of battery life, and a weight of only 3.2 pounds per boot. The new seamless design makes them ultra-easy to set up, and everything charges via USB-C, keeping things simple. Once you go wireless, you’ll never go back. The makers of the Theragun bring cupping therapy into the new age with this three-in-one device, which also offers heat and vibration. No, the extra features are hardly essential (and often you’re better off skipping them). But the ease with which you can cup a muscle with this is worth it. When it comes to infrared sauna blankets, HigherDose’s model is top-notch. We’ve used it for over three years, and it’s great for intense, sweaty sessions, typically between 20 and 25 minutes. The convenient side zipper helps you secure yourself in (and get out) without assistance, and the bamboo insert (sold separately) lets you take it on in just your birthday suit (if that’s your thing). Simple to use yet challenging to master, these training sticks help create leverage, build stability, and improve body awareness. This can result in better range of motion and improved muscle activation across every other workout. They’re a workout in themselves, but you’re slyly doing recovery work in the process. Men's Health favorite Tracksmith nails the classic running short. This update makes them even better. More pockets, less bounce, and a softer (silky Italian) liner. So good. With a 5-inch inseam that hits the sweet spot plus a comfy waistband, this is the closest thing to wearing nothing at all on your daily runs. We don't ask for much from a training short. It just needs to be quick-wicking, non-bunching, ultra-stretchy, comfy, and anti-odor. Oh, and with pockets. The versatile Interval Short is all of the above. We’ve used them for everything from lifting sessions and runs to conditioning work and even ice baths. Our editors love them for every activity and they’ve held up throughout it all. Ditch that stack of season-specific joggers for this all-purpose option that’s the best pair of joggers we’ve found to date. The mid-weight is right for almost any time of year, the tapered fit hits that Goldilocks vibe, and the technical knit fabric has kept our legs cool and dry. Honestly, it’s a damn near perfect pant that we love for training sessions of all kinds, but also for days lounging at home or running errands. Rhone’s Reign Tee stands up to our hardest training sessions and wicks away all that sweat better than most. It fits like your favorite T-shirt, provides the ideal amount of stretch, and looks just as good outside the gym. And it holds up whether you’re running or getting some strength training in. A good hoodie is a staple of every man’s wardrobe. The Accolade Hoodie is destined to be your go-to with a relaxed, squared-off cut, buttery-soft fabric, and a perfectly oversized hood. It’s not as slim-fitting as some other options out there, but that just allows for a bit more room and movement. Trust us, it’s a great training hoodie. If you like your hoodies with a sharper, more fitted cut, the Heritage Midweight is it. All the essential features are here, including a soft cotton blend, raglan sleeves, and Rhone’s signature mesh media pocket. Despite the slim fit, it’s still hardwearing and can take on anything you throw at it. Stability is key when you’re racking serious weight. The Legacy Lifter III was born to keep you locked in during heavy lifts. Inflatable pump technology and a mid-foot strap for maximum security really help make this a snug, comfortable lifting shoe. Lightweight, cooling, and deceptively simple, the ThinkFast features performance fabrics and an extra soft design that really just looks like a normal tee. This makes it super versatile, as it can go from the gym to relaxing on the couch to traveling weekend warrior-style. Whether for recovery, travel, or at your doctor’s orders, the right compression socks can sometimes make a legit difference. Pro Compression’s Marathon knee-high socks are breathable and cozy and feature just the right amount of compression to get your blood pumping. One tee to rule them all —that’s the Flex Tee’s mantra. Our best workout shirt, it’s built with lightweight CoolMax fabric that dries fast and won’t slow you down. During our testing from indoors to outdoors (and in all weather conditions), we also confirmed that the durability, flexibility, and fit are unmatched. Your hardest gym sessions deserve a hard-working tank top—like the Apex. Seamless and lightweight, its breathable, sweat-wicking fabrics are designed to keep up with you. That also means it doesn’t snag, operating like a well-fitting piece of fabric that’s resting on your shoulders. We find ourselves constantly reaching for this one during warm sessions. The perfect base layer keeps you cool, dries fast, and, most important, wicks away moisture like a champ. UA’s HeatGear Sleeveless is that base layer, ventilating your body and regulating your temperature in any weather. It’s great as a standalone when it’s hot out and the ideal first layer when it’s not. For a little extra “boost” during your warmups, there’s Alo’s Triumph. This long-sleeve tee features a relaxed, easy-fit cut from a soft, tri-blend jersey that’s ridiculously comfy and maximizes movement. It really doesn’t restrict in any way and has that nice lived-in feel on the first wear. For Android users chasing that Apple Watch-esque experience, it hardly gets better than Garmin’s flagship Fenix lineup. It boasts serious multi-activity capabilities from running to swimming to gym work, thanks to advanced workout tracking and route mapping features. A handsome, bulletproof design, beautiful AMOLED screen, and endless features make this the year’s best fitness smartwatch. If you like your fitness trackers on the simpler side, Whoop takes things back to basics with the 4.0 Band. It’s comfortable enough for all-day wear and intuitively tracks every metric that matters with zero input from you. It doesn’t have a screen, which we see as a plus in terms of “unplugging,” in theory. It does require a monthly subscription, but if you want to strictly track fitness metrics and not get distracted by anything else, Whoop gets the job done. Oura elevates the smart ring to high fashion with its latest generation Ring 4. It boasts an eight-day battery life, a sleek, handsome design, and strong overall accuracy. What’s great about the Oura Ring is that you don’t need a subscription to get most health data, and wearing a ring can be a lot less intrusive than a tracker or watch. Our editors think no brand does the smart ring better than Oura. The right lifestyle shoe takes you from the streets to the gym and back again without missing a step. This luxe trainer from UA has the looks and the technical chops to be your new everyday footwear fav and is a utilitarian option that can tackle recreational training, HIIT workouts, and athletic-focused activities. When it comes to barefoot trainers, Vivobarefoot is at the top of the list. The Primus Lite III is versatile enough to do it all. It’s lightweight and naturally fitting to support everything from squats and deadlifts to broad jumps. It offers superb ground feel and balance while still providing enough sole protection over the toe for running. For our money, Nobull's OG training shoe is still its best. The Outwork’s low-profile anatomical design keeps you stable and locked in during any situation. They’re perfect for high-intensity workouts, and the one-piece upper SuperFabric is comfortable and durable as all heck. We wear ’em for everything from plyometrics to heavy lifts. Nike’s latest-generation Metcon 6 is purpose-built for all-terrain workouts. That means maximum stability for dynamic movements on grass, turf, tracks, sand, gym floors—you name it. Padded enough to comfortably run, jump, and skip without feeling overly cushy and unstable. True to its name, the Flex Rep trainer short is built for movements of all kinds. It’s flexible, unlined, and reinforced for maximum durability. Plus, a relaxed fit and breathable fabrics keep you cool, calm, and collected. This short can handle everything from squats and sprints to yoga. Ditch the bulk, keep the warmth with TNF’s Winter Warm Pro. It’s windproof and toasty enough for all but the chilliest winter days, and it packs down ridiculously small. It’s a solid jacket for winter runs or outdoor training sessions. We like the side sleeve for storing gloves, too. Bonus: It’s made almost entirely of recycled materials. These compression tights feel and look great, and they bring a hint of visual attitude to your style, too. They’re also functional: The synthetic performance fabric is paired with a comfy waistband, inner drawcords, and a rear zip pocket for stashing valuables. Apple continues to bring the awesome with its next-gen Apple Watch Series 10 that was released this past fall. The water-resistant smartwatch boasts a beautiful always-on Retina display, ECG app, and more features than just about any smartwatch ever created. Essentially, it’s slimmer (the thinnest Apple Watch to date), better-looking, and smarter. If you have smaller wrists or prefer a less weighty watch, then this is the Apple Watch for you. For runners who like to keep tabs on their most critical metrics, the Pace 3 is near-perfect. We love the featherweight design (just 30 grams!), crisp, always-on touchscreen, and up to 17 days of continuous battery life (38 hours continuous GPS use). It also boasts accurate tracking of recovery and GPS location. Puma’s Velocity Nitro 3 is built for speed and stability. The lightweight design and aerodynamic silhouette won’t weigh you down, and the TPU heel spoiler provides maximum sure footedness with every stride. This neutral running shoe has a comfortable and breathable mesh upper, and the outsole provides grip in all conditions. Built for maximum support and freedom of movement, NB’s TWO WXY V5 basketball shoe uses proprietary next-gen materials all around to add comfort and impact protection for your hardest rounds on the court. The same FuelCell foam that powers some of the brand’s top running shoes also provides superior cushioning to these basketball sneaks. "The next-gen open-ear headphones bring full-bodied sound, faster charging, and a better fit, so I can hit the road for longer runs without closing myself off from the outside world." - Brett Williams, NASM-CPT, senior fitness editor "I ran my strongest marathon ever wearing Adidas’s latest super shoe. The Pro 4 is a super-light, super-responsive pair of kicks designed to get you to your goal pace with less effort on a long run, then bust out of it when you need a burst of speed to finish a race." - Brett Williams, NASM-CPT, senior fitness editor "I’ve taken to calling the Glycerin Max my ‘thicc bois’ with affection, since the hyper-cushioned super trainers have become one of my favorite running shoes of all time. The secret sauce (along with the massive foam stack) is the marriage of two types of nitrogen-infused cushioning in the heel and forefoot, which makes my strides feel light." - B rett Williams, NASM-CPT, senior fitness editor "If you really want to deadlift your best, then you want an extra-bendy bar. Kabuki’s PR Deadlift Bar fills that slot, and it has a perfect knurling to set you up for your very best deadlift." - E benezer Samuel, CSCS, fitness director "You won’t find a sleeveless training shirt that fits better, and moves with you in every workout, whether you’re rowing or ski-erging or lifting." - E benezer Samuel, CSCS, fitness director "The best neutral-grip bar you’ll ever use, with super-wrist-friendly angles for bench presses, rows, and JM presses." - E benezer Samuel, CSCS, fitness director "My new favorite form of cardio—the Ski Erg lights up the body in ways a bike or treadmill can’t. Plus, the pulling mechanism is smooth and durable." - Cori Ritchey, CSCS, associate health and fitness editor "If you live alone and carry a lot of tension in your neck and shoulders, this gadget is a must-have. I get a lot of knots in my shoulder blades after a heavy back day, and this hits the spots I can’t get to with a massage gun. Lifesaver!" - Cori Ritchey, CSCS, associate health and fitness editor “Stretching is a game changer, and it doesn’t need to be relegated to before or after a gym session. I am a big fan of Stick Mobility sticks, because in addition to being a great practical tool for workouts, they bring a little fun to the equation. I keep one by my desk at all times, and whenever I’m feeling a little tight in the shoulders or back, it helps open everything up.” - Charles Thorp, NASM-CPT, fitness and commerce editor "I’m a big fan of using weighted vests to intensify my bodyweight workouts in the garage gym and outdoors. There are benefits to carrying this additional weight on more mundane activities, like walks and errands, but rocking a tactical plate carrier in the grocery store isn’t really appropriate. This sleek product from Aion brings function and form to the category, with a design that you can wear anywhere." - Charles Thorp, NASM-CPT, fitness and commerce editor "I used to prefer biking over running, but that all changed when we welcomed our little girl to the family and she was cleared to ride in a jogging stroller. Now it’s my favorite form of cardio. This model from BOB Gear earns its name with extra-large 16-inch back tires, dual suspension, and a swiveling front wheel, giving you peace of mind while logging miles with your little one." - Charles Thorp, NASM-CPT, fitness and commerce editor Design: Leanne Mattern and Jason Speakman Editors: Ryan Brower; Ebenezer Samuel, C.S.C.S; and Charles Throp, NASM Grooming: Hector Simancas/Art Department Photography: Justin Steele Styling: Ted Stafford Writing: Mike Richard; Cori Ritchey, C.S.C.S.; Ebenezer Samuel, C.S.C.S.; Charles Thorp, NASM; and Brett Williams, NASM More of the Best Fitness Gear Best Dumbbells | Best Weight Benches | Best Kettlebells | Best Power Rack | Best Adjustable Dumbbells | | Best Home Gym Equipment | Best Rowing Machines Best Treadmills | Best Exercise Bikes | Best Folding Squat Racks | Best Folding Treadmills | Best Incline Treadmills | Best Cardio Machines | Best Curved Treads | Best Medicine Balls
