Garage Gym Lab is independent and supported by readers. We may earn commissions if you buy through our links. Gym equipment is constantly evolving to incorporate new features and enhancements. We regularly research, track, and aggregate the best fitness equipment releases so you don’t have to. Whether you’re looking for a new barbell, fresh kicks, or an upgraded power rack, we have you covered. REP Releases REP is one of the best at adding unique touches to gym equipment, making them one of the most active and innovative manufacturers out there. They offer a wide range of equipment, including racks, benches, bars, plates, cable systems, and more. All of their products ship for free at reasonable prices. REP BlackWing Bench $599.99+ Free Shipping The latest great bench from REP includes a ladder-style back and their patented Zero-Gap seat. Includes wheels, stores vertically, and is available in multiple colors. REP AB-5200 2.0 Bench $549.99+ Free Shipping The AB-5200 2.0 includes an option for an adjustable back post for decline and you can now customize your color scheme. REP FT-5000 2.0 $2,499.99 Free Shipping Well-featured functional trainer with 224lb dual stacks and a 2:1 weight ratio. Includes 21 cable positions and several pull-up handles. REP AB-3000 2.0 $319.99 Free Shipping The upgraded AB-3000 is one of the best-value flat, incline, decline benches on the market. Includes built-in, adjustable leg rollers. Available in multiple colors. REP Open Trap Bar $319.99 Free Shipping This is our pick as the best trap bar for most people. It’s rackable, has round tubing, and includes several handle options. REP Safety Squat Bar $329.99 Free Shipping Well-balanced SSB with chrome Olympic-sized sleeves, knurled handles, and comfortable padding. REP Ares $2,799.99 Free Shipping Rack-mounted cable system built for the PR-4000 and 5000 racks. Offers lat pull, low row, and adjustable trolleys. Available with up to 310lb stacks. REP Athena $949.99+ Free Shipping Single or dual-column cable attachment with up to 220lb stacks. Fully-adjustable trolleys for a variety of exercises. Rogue Fitness Releases Rogue is the most well-known equipment manufacturer in the home gym industry. They have a massive, ever-growing catalog of racks, benches, bars, plates, and much more. Additionally, they sell many third-party products, making them a solid one-stop-shop option. Rogue Woodway Curved Treadmill $3,995 Free Shipping Rogue has partnered with Woodway on this manual, curved treadmill, which promotes better running form and more. Rogue Mata Ray Adjustable Bench $995+ Made in the USA Full flat, incline, and decline bench with a unique ladder design and multiple seat and back adjustments. Rogue Hybrid Power Bar $395 Made in the USA Stainless steel power bar with a 28.5mm shaft and aggressive knurling. Includes a center knurl and 16.4″ sleeves. Kabuki Kadillac Bar $495 Made in the USA Now made by Rogue, the Kabuki Kadillac Bar is a versatile cambered multi-grip bar with three knurled handle positions and an arched profile. Rogue Alpaca Sled $390+ Made in the USA An enhanced version of the Echo Dog Sled that includes a loadable pan for dumbbells, kettlebells, sandbags, and more. Rogue CB-4 $495 Made in the USA 38mm cambered buffalo bar to alleviate shoulder, elbow, and wrist stress. Weighs 60lbs and includes a black Cerakote finish. Titan Fitness Releases Titan is one of the leading value providers of fitness equipment. They’re also one of the most active fitness companies in terms of product releases. They offer a full catalog of equipment, including specialty machines, racks, bars, and more. Titan Open Trap Bar $329.99 Free Shipping Versatile and rackable open trap bar with dual handle heights and chrome, Olympic-sized sleeves. Titan EZ Grip Bumper Plates $79.99+ Free Shipping Uniquely contoured plates with raised rubber edges make handling easier. Accurate to +/-3% and available up to 55lbs. Titan Angled Multi-Grip Bar v3 $189.99 Free Shipping Upgraded version includes a narrower frame width and center knurl rings. Offers four handle widths for increased variety. Titan Adjustable Kettlebell $119.99 Free Shipping This quick-lock adjustable kettlebell comes with six cast plates for a maximum load of 40lbs. Includes a 28mm handle and a base weight of 10lbs. Other New Releases Check out other new gym equipment releases from some of the top brands in the industry. Reebok Legacy Lifter III $220 Free Shipping The latest version of the popular Legacy Lifter weightlifting shoe line brings back the classic Reebok “Pump.” Bells of Steel Blitz Manual Treadmill $4,999 Free Shipping This manual curved treadmill includes built-in optional magnetic resistance to mimic sled pushes. Additionally, you can run or walk with better form. Bells of Steel Hydra Racks $374.96+ Free Shipping Full lineup of 3×3 11-gauge steel racks with 5/8″ holes and loads of attachment options. Available from squat stands to a 6-post rack. XEBEX Air Ski Trainer $789 This new ski trainer has 10 levels of air resistance and a programmable console. Available as a free-standing or wall-mounted unit. AbMat Genesis Jack Evo $75 Made in the USA This compact deadlift jack weighs less than 1lb but can lift an 800lb bar (400lbs each side). It’s affordable and travel-friendly. AbMat Barbell Bomb $45 Made in the USA Perform landmine training anywhere with the affordable barbell bomb. Weighing less than 4 ounces, you can take it anywhere. PRx Topper Bar $499 Made in the USA Versatile multi-grip pull-up station that can mount perfectly to 16″ wall studs or ceiling joists. Pairs with 73″ PRx racks or as a standalone unit. Eleiko Oppen Bar v2 $850 Upgraded version includes dual handle heights. This open trap bar includes a built-in deadlift jack and round tubing for cambered squats. Eleiko IPF Powerlifting Training Bar $1,100+ This first-of-its-kind power bar includes sensor-ready sleeves to track velocity. It has a stainless shaft, aggressive knurling, and thin competition collars.
