Opens in a new window Whether you’re going across the country or just out of town, a rental car can help you get there. However, if you’ve never done it, renting a car for the first time can be intimidating. From puzzling over pros and cons to filling out paperwork to photographing dings and dents, there’s a lot to remember, but don’t worry. This guide will get you up to speed on first-time car rentals so you can get going. Before we get into what to know when renting a car, let’s get into why, so you can decide if car rental is right for you. Are you traveling somewhere (like a state park or other remote area) without reliable public transportation? Does your trip include multiple destinations in the same general area, where booking a flight or train to each isn’t feasible? Or maybe your everyday car just isn’t up for what you’re planning. Some other reasons for renting a car include: Whether you’re renting a car for the first or the hundredth time, the process is generally the same. If you’re unable (or just don’t want) to travel to a rental lot yourself, check for companies that deliver cars right to your door and pick them up when you’re done or companies that will pick you up and take you to the lot. Do rental cars require insurance? As mentioned above, most rental companies don’t require it, but they typically have several plans available. To determine if you need insurance for a rental car, consider what options are available and what you need (e.g., collision, personal accident/effects and liability). Review your own auto insurance policy (if you have one). Check whether the credit card you’re paying with offers insurance, too, and find the details. Either way, you should be able to purchase coverage at the rental company’s counter. An agent can go over what each plan covers and any associated minimums or deductibles. Go over the policy thoroughly and ask questions so you understand what you’re getting. If you’re renting a car for work-related travel, your employer may also have coverage options. Before you leave the lot with your rental car, it’s typically a good idea to do a walk-around to note any damage or unusual elements of the car. Mention whatever you find to the agent so they can make note of it in your rental agreement (agents usually do their own walk-around as well) and take dated photos of the car for your records. You might also want to check for an owner’s manual, spare tires, weather implements (like snow scrapers) and USB ports before you head out, so you’re not caught off-guard. Your online reservation (if you have one) and rental agreement will state the drop-off time and location for your first-time car rental. To avoid fees, it’s usually best to avoid arriving later than what’s listed in your agreement (though many rental car companies charge by the day, and count days based on 24-hour windows from when you picked up the car). To avoid stress, familiarize yourself with where you’re going, how to get there and any unusual elements of the route (like one-way streets and lots you can’t back out of). Once you’re on the lot, signs or an attendant will usually tell you where to park. On your way, you’ll want to stop for gas. Search for stations 10 miles or less from the lot. It’s best to know where you’re headed and where you’re going afterward, so you don’t have to fill up all over again. This is also a good time to dispose of any trash. Don’t forget to take stock of any personal items in the car. Remove any suitcases, car seats, GPS devices or charging cords you brought yourself. Once you’re out of the car, perform the same walk-around as before, noting any new (or old) damage and taking pictures for your records. If there are any new bumps, spills or chips, you may have to file a Condition Change Report and pay a fee. For more extensive damage, such as those caused by an accident, the rental company may contact an estimator. In addition to taking photos, you can ask for a printed (or emailed) receipt. This will usually provide proof of return time and fuel amount. If your destination is your final stop (for example, if you’re moving, or planning an extended stay without need of a rental car), you might want to book a one-way car rental. While this option is convenient, keep in mind that it can come with additional fees or a higher rate. Costs can be affected by pickup/drop-off location (especially if you’re traveling across country lines), length of rental and even the vehicle you rent. Returning a car to a different location also typically requires that you book in advance. While time on the road is never short on surprises, it is typically not cost-effective (or, in some cases, even possible) to return a car to a different location without prior authorization. If such an issue arises, contact your rental company ASAP. When booking your rental car, pay attention to the cancellation policy in your agreement. If your plans change, it may be as easy as clicking a button to cancel your reservation, but there may be associated fees, depending on how/when you do it. Many companies allow you to cancel for free as long as you do so more than 24 hours before your rental time (fees may appear at, and increase if, you’re within, 24 hours). If you’ve prepaid, you may receive all or some of your payment as a refund; if you haven’t, you may not have to pay for (some or all of) the canceled reservation. Now that you know what renting a car entails, you can decide whether it’s the right option for your trip. Rental cars can be helpful when traveling in areas without other transportation options, or when taking public transit or ridesharing isn’t feasible due to luggage, scheduling or number of destinations. However, it’s worth knowing what situations are best served by public transit and cabs. You may want to forego the car rental if you’re: Disclosure: This article is for educational purposes. It is not intended to provide legal, investment, or financial advice and is not a substitute for professional advice. It does not indicate the availability of any Citi product or service. For advice about your specific circumstances, you should consult a qualified professional. Citi Travel is powered by Rocket Travel by Agoda. Learn everything you need to know about the rental car process from reserving the car to dropping it off, including must-know tips. Discover the least expensive way to rent a car with our expert tips. Learn how to save on rental cars and get the best price for your next trip. See how rental car insurance works, including different types of rental car insurance, and how to determine if you should take out an additional policy. Ready to rent a car? Explore our step-by-step guide to the rental process, including rental requirements and tips for picking up your vehicle hassle-free.
