From understanding the fine print to navigating unfamiliar roads, renting a car in California can be mind-boggling. I know that when I first started traveling, the car rental process was one of the most tricky parts of the travel day. Now, after taking countless trips to the great state of California, I have picked up some tips and tricks to help make this process easier! Here’s my complete guide to renting a car in California. Whether it’s your first time renting a car in California, or you just want to brush up on the steps, you have come to the right place! Disclosure: This blog post has affiliate links which means if you click and make a purchase I may earn a small commission at NO additional cost to you. These are my own personal suggestions based on products/experiences I love and use. Read the full disclosure here. Understanding California’s Car Rental Market Much like other states in the United States, car rental companies are plentiful throughout the Golden State. There are a plethora of choices at all the major airports as well as car rental companies spread out throughout the major cities. You’ll find the major companies such as Hertz, Enterprise, Avis, and Alamo, as well as individual-owned rentals with companies such as Turo and Getaround. Personally, I love using the DiscoverCars search engine when renting a car in California as it searches all the major players with a click of a button. All you have to do is type in your city or airport of choice and the platform will search over 500+ suppliers. Plus, they offer free cancellation and no hidden costs! Renting a Car in California Pricing As with most things in California, rental fees and taxes are a bit more expensive than you may be used to. In addition to the base daily rate, you should expect to pay 7.25% sales tax (9.5% in LA), and a 47-cent gasoline tax. Daily rates will differ based on which California city you are visiting and the time of year, but you can budget anywhere from $12 to $55+ a day. The average is typically on the higher end at around $45 per day. Picking the Right Vehicle California is a large state known for its diverse weather. You could spend one day at the beach, and then drive a few hours and find yourself in a snowstorm in the mountains. It’s important to fully understand your travel itinerary before choosing a car. Consider the size of your party, your planned routes (those winding coastal roads can be narrow!), and the car’s fuel efficiency. Given California’s push for environmental friendliness, renting an electric vehicle or hybrid is also a viable option, with plenty of charging stations statewide. Legal Requirements for Renting a Car Now it’s time to dig into the fine print a bit. Although the details will differ depending on the city, company, and insurance, this is a quick overview of the legal requirements for renting a car in California. Age Requirements Although you only have to be 16 to get your driver’s license in the United States, most rental car companies require you to be much older. In California, you must be at least 21 years old to rent a car. However, you’ll find the cheapest rates if you are over 25. Drivers between 21 and 25, should be prepared to pay a hefty “ young driver surcharge ” that typically ranges from $20-$90 a day. You can sometimes avoid this additional fee by renting with individual-owned car rental companies such as Turo or Getaround. Driving License Requirements You do not need an international driving permit to rent a car in California. As long as you have a valid license from your home state or country, you are able to legally rent a car! Insurance Explained Deciding on what insurance to get for your rental car can be daunting. Each time you rent a car, the employee will likely state that you are the safest with the add-on insurance. Although this is sometimes the case, it’s best for you to double-check with your personal car insurance company to see if it’s necessary. No need to pay extra for something you already pay for each month! Tip! If your car insurance does not cover rentals, your credit card might! A lot of travel credit cards have complete rental car coverage which means you wouldn’t need to buy the insurance offered at the counter. Understanding Rental Agreements Rental agreements are not to be skimmed over. Be aware of mileage limits, fuel policies, and late return fees to avoid any unexpected charges. I always take my time reviewing these documents, ensuring I fully understand my obligations and rights. It’s better to ask questions before driving the car away vs. after returning it. Common (Additional) Car Rental Fees in California Young driver Additional driver Different drop-off location Cross-border fee Highway toll fees Late drop-off Surpassing milage Damaged rental car or key Smoking fee Cleaning fee Fuel surcharge Navigating California by Car The state’s vast and varied landscapes mean that one day you could be navigating the bustling streets of San Francisco, and the next, cruising along the scenic Pacific Coast Highway with its dramatic ocean views, winding (and narrow) turns. California drivers need to be prepared for diverse conditions, including busy urban streets (looking at you LA traffic jams), desert heat, and snowy mountain passes. Traffic laws in California may differ from those in other states or countries, notably the widespread use of carpool lanes (HOV lanes) designed to reduce congestion and promote car-sharing, and laws requiring drivers to stop for pedestrians in crosswalks. There are also very strict distracted driving laws so be sure your eyes are always on the road (which is always good advice). Dealing with Common Issues As with any road trip, it’s best to be prepared for common issues or roadblocks. Before leaving the rental car facility, be sure to locate the roadside assistance number associated with your rental car company. If you happen to have a mechanical issue or breakdown, this will be your go-to number. Although I hope you never have an accident (with or without a rental), there are several steps to follow if you do. After you are pulled over in a safe spot and ensure no one is hurt, you can make a police report with the California Highway Patrol . Treat it like any other car accident by getting the names, contact information, and insurance of anyone involved. You then need to file a claim with the at-fault driver’s insurance. From here, the insurance provider will work with the rental car agency to handle repairs. Saving Money on Your Rental Who doesn’t love a good deal? Scouring the web for discounts, leveraging loyalty programs, and booking during off-peak times are strategies I’ve used to stretch my dollar further when it comes to renting a car. I have found the cheapest rental car prices by using DiscoverCars user-friendly platform which saves a lot of time! My Best Tips for Renting a Car in California Understand Insurance Options: Familiarize yourself with the insurance coverage options provided by the rental agency and determine if you need additional coverage. Check if your personal car insurance or credit card offers coverage for rental cars to avoid double paying for the same coverage. Inspect the Rental Car: Before driving off, thoroughly inspect the vehicle for any pre-existing damages and ensure they are documented by the rental company. This may seem like overkill, but it could save you hundreds of dollars. I like to take a video of the outside and inside before pulling away. Know the Traffic Laws: California has specific traffic laws, such as stricter rules on cellphone use and distracted driving. Also, be aware of the carpool (HOV) lane rules to avoid fines. Tips for Renting a Car in California Continued 4. Be Prepared for Tolls: Some highways, bridges, and tunnels in California require tolls. Opt for a toll payment plan through the rental agency if available, or be sure to ask about the best way to pay tolls to avoid penalties. 5. Plan for Fueling: Pay attention to the rental company’s fuel policy. Some companies offer a pre-purchase option or require you to return the car with a full tank. Knowing this in advance can save you money and avoid last-minute hassles. 6. Use DiscoverCars to Book Your California Car Rental: I promise, you will love the platform as well! Renting a Car in California Recap California is one of the most beautiful states in the United States and renting a car opens up a world of possibility. With the right preparation and knowledge, you can navigate the rental process smoothly and take off on an unforgettable adventure. Whether it’s the scenic routes, the bustling cities, or the serene landscapes, you’ll love the freedom a rental car gives you. Happy traveling! Final Thoughts Renting a car is a great way to get around if you’re looking for an easier mode of transport. I hope this guide was a helpful resource for you. As always, thank you for reading. Did you learn anything new or have any feedback? Would you rent a car on your next trip? Let me know. Please comment below and don’t forget to subscribe here. Find me here: I’m on most social media, so let’s be friends: Pinterest , Facebook and Twitter . Into enlightenment, galleries, yummy food and more? Travel to Sedona to experience it all. Visiting Arizona and you’d like to check out the Grand Canyon? Read this. Are you a musician or a fan of music in general? Check out my MIM museum blog post. Interested in learning all about the Wrigley Mansion? Take a gander here. Looking to experience a little solitude outside of the city? Read this blog post to escape NYC. Ever wondered what the largest home in America looks like? Read this. Ready to experience a peaceful garden oasis? Read this. Are you a fan of nature and looking for ideas on where to go hiking? Read this. Visiting NYC and you’d like to take a trip to Albany but don’t know how? Check this out. Traveling to Austin and looking for cool museums to visit? Read this post and this one. Visiting San Francisco and looking for delicious spots to eat at? Look here and here. Final Thoughts Continued Have a sweet tooth and looking for tasty treat ideas? Check this out. Are you a wine drinker or you’d like to experience a wine tour? Read this. Want to know whether you should carry-on your bag or check it on the plane? Read more here. Having wanderlust, or traveling out of the country? Check out my detailed travel itineraries to Aruba, Belgium, London, Paris and Amsterdam. Need resources related to blogging? Check out my tips on email marketing here and how to protect your blog here. Have a long flight planned and need tips on how to get through it? I’ve got you covered here. Wonder how you can be safe when traveling? Check out my tips here. Curious as to how I choose my travel destinations? Read this. Like it? Pin it! Found this blog post helpful? Any support is greatly appreciated! 🙂 Buy me a coffee Photo Credit Thank you Grant Porter for the scenic car photo and Olena Bohovyk for the car photo in the woods. I discovered their work from Unsplash.com . Please check them out! Disclosure This blog post has affiliate links which means if you click and make a purchase I may earn a small commission. This commission comes at NO additional cost to you. These are my own personal suggestions based on products/experiences I love and use. Read the full disclosure here. Covid-19 Disclaimer : The recommendations listed are based on my own suggestions and in no way endorses or condemns travel at this time. If you decide to take a trip, follow national and state guidelines, and of course the CDC when traveling. This website is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program. This is an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. From understanding the fine print to navigating unfamiliar roads, renting a car in California can be mind-boggling. I know that when I first started traveling, the car rental process was one of the most tricky parts of the travel day. Now, after taking countless trips to the great state of California, I have picked up some tips and tricks to help make this process easier! Here’s my complete guide to renting a car in California. Whether it’s your first time renting a car in California, or you just want to brush up on the steps, you have come to the right place! Disclosure: This blog post has affiliate links which means if you click and make a purchase I may earn a small commission at NO additional cost to you. These are my own personal suggestions based on products/experiences I love and use. Read the full disclosure here. Understanding California’s Car Rental Market Much like other states in the United States, car rental companies are plentiful throughout the Golden State. There are a plethora of choices at all the major airports as well as car rental companies spread out throughout the major cities. You’ll find the major companies such as Hertz, Enterprise, Avis, and Alamo, as well as individual-owned rentals with companies such as Turo and Getaround. Personally, I love using the DiscoverCars search engine when renting a car in California as it searches all the major players with a click of a button. All you have to do is type in your city or airport of choice and the platform will search over 500+ suppliers. Plus, they offer free cancellation and no hidden costs! Renting a Car in California Pricing As with most things in California, rental fees and taxes are a bit more expensive than you may be used to. In addition to the base daily rate, you should expect to pay 7.25% sales tax (9.5% in LA), and a 47-cent gasoline tax. Daily rates will differ based on which California city you are visiting and the time of year, but you can budget anywhere from $12 to $55+ a day. The average is typically on the higher end at around $45 per day. Picking the Right Vehicle California is a large state known for its diverse weather. You could spend one day at the beach, and then drive a few hours and find yourself in a snowstorm in the mountains. It’s important to fully understand your travel itinerary before choosing a car. Consider the size of your party, your planned routes (those winding coastal roads can be narrow!), and the car’s fuel efficiency. Given California’s push for environmental friendliness, renting an electric vehicle or hybrid is also a viable option, with plenty of charging stations statewide. Legal Requirements for Renting a Car Now it’s time to dig into the fine print a bit. Although the details will differ depending on the city, company, and insurance, this is a quick overview of the legal requirements for renting a car in California. Age Requirements Although you only have to be 16 to get your driver’s license in the United States, most rental car companies require you to be much older. In California, you must be at least 21 years old to rent a car. However, you’ll find the cheapest rates if you are over 25. Drivers between 21 and 25, should be prepared to pay a hefty “ young driver surcharge ” that typically ranges from $20-$90 a day. You can sometimes avoid this additional fee by renting with individual-owned car rental companies such as Turo or Getaround. Driving License Requirements You do not need an international driving permit to rent a car in California. As long as you have a valid license from your home state or country, you are able to legally rent a car! Insurance Explained Deciding on what insurance to get for your rental car can be daunting. Each time you rent a car, the employee will likely state that you are the safest with the add-on insurance. Although this is sometimes the case, it’s best for you to double-check with your personal car insurance company to see if it’s necessary. No need to pay extra for something you already pay for each month! Tip! If your car insurance does not cover rentals, your credit card might! A lot of travel credit cards have complete rental car coverage which means you wouldn’t need to buy the insurance offered at the counter. Understanding Rental Agreements Rental agreements are not to be skimmed over. Be aware of mileage limits, fuel policies, and late return fees to avoid any unexpected charges. I always take my time reviewing these documents, ensuring I fully understand my obligations and rights. It’s better to ask questions before driving the car away vs. after returning it. Common (Additional) Car Rental Fees in California Young driver Additional driver Different drop-off location Cross-border fee Highway toll fees Late drop-off Surpassing milage Damaged rental car or key Smoking fee Cleaning fee Fuel surcharge Navigating California by Car The state’s vast and varied landscapes mean that one day you could be navigating the bustling streets of San Francisco, and the next, cruising along the scenic Pacific Coast Highway with its dramatic ocean views, winding (and narrow) turns. California drivers need to be prepared for diverse conditions, including busy urban streets (looking at you LA traffic jams), desert heat, and snowy mountain passes. Traffic laws in California may differ from those in other states or countries, notably the widespread use of carpool lanes (HOV lanes) designed to reduce congestion and promote car-sharing, and laws requiring drivers to stop for pedestrians in crosswalks. There are also very strict distracted driving laws so be sure your eyes are always on the road (which is always good advice). Dealing with Common Issues As with any road trip, it’s best to be prepared for common issues or roadblocks. Before leaving the rental car facility, be sure to locate the roadside assistance number associated with your rental car company. If you happen to have a mechanical issue or breakdown, this will be your go-to number. Although I hope you never have an accident (with or without a rental), there are several steps to follow if you do. After you are pulled over in a safe spot and ensure no one is hurt, you can make a police report with the California Highway Patrol . Treat it like any other car accident by getting the names, contact information, and insurance of anyone involved. You then need to file a claim with the at-fault driver’s insurance. From here, the insurance provider will work with the rental car agency to handle repairs. Saving Money on Your Rental Who doesn’t love a good deal? Scouring the web for discounts, leveraging loyalty programs, and booking during off-peak times are strategies I’ve used to stretch my dollar further when it comes to renting a car. I have found the cheapest rental car prices by using DiscoverCars user-friendly platform which saves a lot of time! My Best Tips for Renting a Car in California Understand Insurance Options: Familiarize yourself with the insurance coverage options provided by the rental agency and determine if you need additional coverage. Check if your personal car insurance or credit card offers coverage for rental cars to avoid double paying for the same coverage. Inspect the Rental Car: Before driving off, thoroughly inspect the vehicle for any pre-existing damages and ensure they are documented by the rental company. This may seem like overkill, but it could save you hundreds of dollars. I like to take a video of the outside and inside before pulling away. Know the Traffic Laws: California has specific traffic laws, such as stricter rules on cellphone use and distracted driving. Also, be aware of the carpool (HOV) lane rules to avoid fines. Tips for Renting a Car in California Continued 4. Be Prepared for Tolls: Some highways, bridges, and tunnels in California require tolls. Opt for a toll payment plan through the rental agency if available, or be sure to ask about the best way to pay tolls to avoid penalties. 5. Plan for Fueling: Pay attention to the rental company’s fuel policy. Some companies offer a pre-purchase option or require you to return the car with a full tank. Knowing this in advance can save you money and avoid last-minute hassles. 6. Use DiscoverCars to Book Your California Car Rental: I promise, you will love the platform as well! Renting a Car in California Recap California is one of the most beautiful states in the United States and renting a car opens up a world of possibility. With the right preparation and knowledge, you can navigate the rental process smoothly and take off on an unforgettable adventure. Whether it’s the scenic routes, the bustling cities, or the serene landscapes, you’ll love the freedom a rental car gives you. Happy traveling! Final Thoughts Renting a car is a great way to get around if you’re looking for an easier mode of transport. I hope this guide was a helpful resource for you. As always, thank you for reading. Did you learn anything new or have any feedback? Would you rent a car on your next trip? Let me know. Please comment below and don’t forget to subscribe here. Find me here: I’m on most social media, so let’s be friends: Pinterest , Facebook and Twitter . Into enlightenment, galleries, yummy food and more? Travel to Sedona to experience it all. Visiting Arizona and you’d like to check out the Grand Canyon? Read this. Are you a musician or a fan of music in general? Check out my MIM museum blog post. Interested in learning all about the Wrigley Mansion? Take a gander here. Looking to experience a little solitude outside of the city? Read this blog post to escape NYC. Ever wondered what the largest home in America looks like? Read this. Ready to experience a peaceful garden oasis? Read this. Are you a fan of nature and looking for ideas on where to go hiking? Read this. Visiting NYC and you’d like to take a trip to Albany but don’t know how? Check this out. Traveling to Austin and looking for cool museums to visit? Read this post and this one. Visiting San Francisco and looking for delicious spots to eat at? Look here and here. Final Thoughts Continued Have a sweet tooth and looking for tasty treat ideas? Check this out. Are you a wine drinker or you’d like to experience a wine tour? Read this. Want to know whether you should carry-on your bag or check it on the plane? Read more here. Having wanderlust, or traveling out of the country? Check out my detailed travel itineraries to Aruba, Belgium, London, Paris and Amsterdam. Need resources related to blogging? Check out my tips on email marketing here and how to protect your blog here. Have a long flight planned and need tips on how to get through it? I’ve got you covered here. Wonder how you can be safe when traveling? Check out my tips here. Curious as to how I choose my travel destinations? Read this. Like it? Pin it! Found this blog post helpful? Any support is greatly appreciated! 🙂 Buy me a coffee Photo Credit Thank you Grant Porter for the scenic car photo and Olena Bohovyk for the car photo in the woods. I discovered their work from Unsplash.com . Please check them out! Disclosure This blog post has affiliate links which means if you click and make a purchase I may earn a small commission. This commission comes at NO additional cost to you. These are my own personal suggestions based on products/experiences I love and use. Read the full disclosure here. Covid-19 Disclaimer : The recommendations listed are based on my own suggestions and in no way endorses or condemns travel at this time. If you decide to take a trip, follow national and state guidelines, and of course the CDC when traveling. This website is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program. This is an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com.
