Home/ Guides/ Electricians/ Electrical Side Jobs 8 Electrical side jobs: Lucrative gigs to boost your income Here are different ways to make extra money as an electrician. Last Updated on Key Facts Side jobs like ceiling fan installation, light fixture upgrades, and outlet replacement are popular among electricians for extra income. High-demand tasks such as EV charger setups or smart home device installations can offer even better returns. Flexibility is key—these side gigs let electricians choose projects that fit their schedule, skills, and income goals. Extra income is always welcome, even if you earn well as an electrician, especially if you have spare time on weekends or after you finish your workday. Side hustles can help you make ends meet when your main business is slow. Moreover, side gigs can go towards your savings or allow you to hone new skills. You may ask, what are good side hustles for electricians and different ways to use your electrical skills for extra income? This guide offers some ideas on how to make money as an electrician. Lighting installation This is one in-demand and lucrative side job for electricians. Nowadays, homeowners like to renovate their homes and have new kitchens, bathrooms, or bedrooms built or rebuilt. Some homeowners also opt to make outdoor living spaces in their backyard or patio, so they’ll need an expert to install new lighting. Smart home setup More and more appliances are becoming “smart” and able to connect to the internet. And many homeowners want to synchronize their devices and shift to cost-efficient solutions. To offer this service, you’ll need to know how to set up and integrate smart devices like smart thermostats, smart TVs, smart refrigerators, and smart LED lights. Smart home setups usually involve pairing these devices with apps like Google, Siri, or Alexa. The Internet of Things is predicted to become the next big thing. So, there’s much potential for this electrical side work to become a lucrative career! Small appliance repairs Some homeowners can be nostalgic, frugal, want to avoid creating more electronic waste, or all three. That’s why there can be a demand for experts who can fix small appliances. With this service, you can spare customers the hassle and cost of buying new electronics. With your working knowledge, fixing small appliances like toasters, fans, and mixers can be an easy side hustle. Electrical foreman Another profitable (and not to mention interesting!) electrical gig is that of an electrical foreman. Note that you should have the requisite experience apart from your electrician’s certifications to get this job. This is a supervisory job where you can be tasked to inspect and test light fixtures, circuit breakers, electrical wiring, fire alarms, smoke detectors, and other vital electrical features in a home or commercial establishment. The job can also include scheduling tasks, advising workers, and ensuring that the project stays within budget and is on schedule. Depending on the scope of the job, this can even be a part-time electrical side job you can do from home! Electrical maintenance technician As an electrician who does maintenance tasks part-time, you can hire out your services to property managers or owners of commercial buildings. This electrician side hustle entails routine maintenance checks of electrical wiring, maintenance, and repairing any damaged wiring or electrical components. Installing cables You can do cable installation, whether it’s installing cables for a CCTV security system, cable TV and high-speed internet, hooking up sound and video for a home entertainment center, or even setting up a home network. This can be a lucrative gig that won’t lack demand since most internet and cable companies outsource installation work to third parties. You can offer your services to install cables directly to homeowners or business owners. Or, apply to local internet companies as a third-party supplier to hook their subscribers up. You may find a gig like this easier since you’re already familiar with most of the safety standards for installing electrical wiring. DIY store partnership Another profitable side gig for electricians is to partner with your neighborhood DIY center. These specialty stores keep a list of independent contractors to help their customers with their DIY projects – you can be on that list and make extra income! Journeyman electrician As a journeyman electrician, you can work as an independent contractor who tackles a variety of complex side jobs for electricians. While you work your way to the rank of master electrician, you can work on residential or commercial projects. If you go the residential route, your side jobs can include repairing or replacing faulty wiring and electrical components and installing the wiring in home construction or renovation. For commercial work, you can be called upon to install, repair and maintain electrical systems in buildings or other commercial/industrial structures like oil rigs, shipyards, mines, power plants, or manufacturing facilities. Also read: How to make more money as an electrician How to get an electrical side work You can find electrical jobs in your area through Airtasker. Our platform lets you connect with homeowners, property managers, or basically anyone else in need of your electrical services. It’s easy to see that you can make a decent amount of extra cash, even if you do the simplest of electrical tasks. Your biggest challenge is getting clients; Airtasker is here to help you with that! Become a Tasker now to start finding electrical side jobs near you. FAQs on electrical jobs Yes, electricians can make a lot of money, especially master electricians. The downside of this strategy of maximizing your earnings as an electrician is that it can take at least 7 years to reach that level. Depending on your state, you may need a lot of experience and training under another master electrician and then pass a series of examinations before you can call yourself a master. You can also do side gigs apart from your regular electrician job. Electrical side job pricing depends on the complexity of the job, the time it takes to do the job, and your level of skill and experience. If you have to buy any materials like wiring, plugs, switches, or outlets, you can add their cost with a 20% markup to cover your labor, travel time, and travel expenses to your rate. Note that the average hourly rate for skilled electricians in the US is around $50 to $100. Depending on the size of the house, how complex it is to wire the house, and if your client wants it done quickly, electricians can charge $2 to $4 per square foot when wiring a house. Assuming the house is 1,200 square feet, you can charge $2,400 to $4,800. The price goes up if you have to drill through walls and install a lot of outlets, switches, and junction boxes. Yes, in fact, there is a shortage of electricians in the US. According to the US Bureau of Labor and Statistics, electrician jobs are expected to grow by 7% from 2021 to 2031 alone. There are a projected 79,900 openings for new electricians in each year of this ten-year period. Much of the demand for new electricians comes as a result of workers shifting to other occupations, the entrance of few new electricians, and some electricians reaching retirement age. Create your profile and start browsing jobs in minutes Start earning now Related articles Related price guides
