Completely outsource the tasks of all your events and work with a professional team of upbeat experts that drive clear results for maximum event success! With Clear Canvas, you’re assured of reliable, experienced professionals who are dedicated to helping bring your vision to life. Schedule a discov At Epic Event Creations our team of Event Planners specialize in unique event creations, organizing bespoke parties, weddings, and corporate events for the most discerning clientele in Ohio and across the country. Click the link to receive your complimentary consultation and begin your Epic journey "The best Indian Wedding Planner, Professional & Affordable South Asian Wedding Planner, Indian Wedding Consultant. @theweddingelegance Chetali at theweddingelegance.com …. Ohio, Columbus, Cleveland, Cincinnati, Toledo, Akron, Dayton, Parma, Canton, Lorain, Youngstown, Hamilton, Kettering, Elyria, Are you planning a wedding or special event and want to make it truly unforgettable? Look no further than Vladikman1 Studio LLC, your premier event planning company! At Vladikman1 Studio LLC, we offer a wide range of services to make your event perfect, including hair styling, makeup, lighting, DJ, My goal as a professional consultant is to offer the Bride & Groom/Client the peace of mind by staying on top of the wedding/special event details so they can enjoy a stress-free day. Let Your Event, Your Way LLC take care of every detail, so you can enjoy this special time in your life! Ready to find the perfect venue? CKE is a premier Event Planning and Design Company based in Cleveland, Ohio and planning events all over the world! We specialize in five star customer service, and memorable events for all involved. We are a full service Event/Party Planning Company Serving Cleveland and its Surrounding Areas. We are here to take the stress out of your event .We stress ,You FLEX!! We aim to give our customers the most Memorable experience on their big day. We pride ourselves on quality product , great customer Eloquets Enterprise LLC, is an all-purpose event planning and consulting company that offers a variety of services for special event needs. Established in 1998, Eloquets Enterprise has successfully planned events for a diverse clientele as well as produced the "Pamper the Bride Expo" and the "I'm E Party411 Events is a full service event planner/coordinator and decorator founded in 1996. We offer part or full coordination—from signage, seating cards and favors to managing RSVPs, graphics and more. P411 is known for it’s creativity and originality for private clients planning milestone events ( 7.8 miles from Cleveland, OH GhostLight Principals, Deborah Hermann and David Shimp are creative and stylish, award winning event producers who specialize in elaborate fundraising galas, grand openings of theaters/performance centers, conferences, anniversary celebrations,and wedding décor. They were voted “Best Corporate Event Ready to find the perfect venue? 15 miles from Cleveland, OH Whether you need help planning your entire wedding or event, or just a portion, we can help. We have been planning successful and memorable weddings and events for over 16 years. On your special day we will attend to every detail, making certain that you feel like a guest, not an employee at you 15 miles from Cleveland, OH About Janet Abbey, Cleveland Event Planner Hi, I'm Janet, the owner and operator of Sterling Event Services. I have planned, coordinated, and managed over 150 weddings and over 200 social and corporate events, the majority of which took place in and around the Cleveland area. My extensive industry 16 miles from Cleveland, OH Benefits of our Free Honeymoon Planning Service & DESTINATION WEDDING: (It's FREE) No hidden booking fees Best Price Guarantee We listen to your vision and match you with the perfect resort Exceptional personalized service - Email, call, or text us! We save you hours of searching and reviewing onli 26 miles from Cleveland, OH A full service travel planner. I specialize in All-Inclusive vacations, cruises, and Disney Destinations. I work with honeymooners, families and groups. Cleveland, OH We plan weddings and events. We also decorate the event. Beachwood, OH We offer a full suite of event planning services, custom floral design, and custom stationery & invitations. Whether you are planning a wedding, hosting an intimate dinner, or celebrating a birthday, we are here to help you every step of the way and ensure that your dreams are realized. Streetsboro, OH I am a full-service wedding, event planner/coordinator, and licensed Officiant in the Northeast Ohio & Western Pennsylvania area. I work with you and your budget to have the event you envision. Please contact us today to schedule your FREE consultation and to see how you can save up to 20%! We loo Style My Event By Felder & Co. Roses By Red Event Planning Infinity Love 4 Event Planning Avant-Garde Art & Craft Shows There are 28 Event Planners in and around Cleveland at Eventective.com. Use the filter options to find your Perfect Cleveland Event Planner.
