College Admissions Plans & Packages Which of our packages is right for you? College Admissions Initial Consultation (6th-12th grades) Who is this for? The College Admissions Initial Consultation (IC) helps families navigate the path to a successful and fulfilling future. In this first meeting, we create a customized plan for high school achievement and college admissions. During the consultation, our experts assess a student’s strengths and areas for improvement, while discussing both high school and college aspirations and potential career paths. Our experienced college coach guides students in making informed decisions about academic courses, extracurriculars, athletics, leadership roles, and community service, ensuring a well-rounded and strategic approach to each student’s future. Deliverables include: Two-hour, student-centered meeting focused on the PT College Selection Survey, assessing the student’s academic strengths, weaknesses, subject preferences, extracurricular activities, and long-term college and career goals. Thorough analysis of the student’s academic transcript and standardized test scores. Evaluation and strategic planning of secondary school course rigor, including AP/IB/Honors options. Personalized recommendations for secondary school course selection. Customized standardized testing, plan, including timelines and preparation strategies. Assessment of the student’s academic, social, and athletic involvement, along with their potential for growth in these areas. Insight into extracurricular activities, community service, and leadership, highlighting key opportunities like Governor’s School, summer programs, Eagle Scout or Gold Award, Boys and Girls State, People-to-People programs, and study abroad options. Evaluation of how academic achievements, extracurricular activities, leadership, and service experiences align with college admissions goals. Detailed review and walkthrough of the college admissions process. Calculated probability of college admissions, tailored to the student’s profile. Comprehensive discussion on college costs, merit scholarships, and financial aid opportunities. Targeted recommendations to increase college acceptance and merit scholarships. Curated list of potential colleges for the family and student to research and evaluate. Expert advice on working effectively with the school guidance department. , a valuable resource for the college application journey. The Official Julia Ross College Admissions Handbook Academic Planning and Resume Package (6th-10th grades) Who is this for? The Academic Planning and Resume Package (APRP) is designed for students and families who want to stay ahead in the college admissions process. This comprehensive package includes three key components: the College Admissions Initial Consultation, the College Selection Decision Matrix , and the creation of a professional, high-impact Student Resume , edited by our experts to help students stand out. Deliverables include: College Admissions Initial Consultation College Selection Decision Matrix (CSDM): Customized research for the colleges listed in the Initial Consultation outlining up to 30 potential colleges for consideration listing average required SAT/ACT scores, GPA, student/teacher ratio, male/female student body ratio, majors, athletics and other qualitative and quantitative data points; ranked by admissions probability Access to our 60-thousand-data-point CSDM research, development and meeting: A one-hour meeting with student and parent(s) to evaluate the CSDM Student Resume Two-hour Student/Parent Workshop to develop the initial Student Resume Three to four edits to ensure an excellent admissions branding document. Advocacy: PT will represent the student’s strengths and passions to several college admissions officers, as appropriate, through phone calls, emails and in-person visits. Support: Services include: follow-up questions, emails, phone calls, research, admissions contact, etc. Academic Planning and Resume Package: Checkup (7th-11th grades) Who is this for? The Academic Planning and Resume Package Checkup is designed to serve high school students who have completed the College Admissions Initial Consultation and/or the APRP . The Checkup monitors and directs a student’s high school academic choices, extra-curricular activities, athletics, leadership and community services. The program affords consistent assessment and modification of the student’s college preparation plan. Deliverables include: The 1.5-two-hour, student-centered meeting to evaluate the student’s progress since the previous meeting. This includes extracurricular activities, and long-term college and career goals. Thorough analysis of the student’s academic transcript and standardized test scores. Evaluation and strategic planning of secondary school course rigor, including AP/IB/Honors options. Customized plan for standardized testing, including timelines and preparation strategies. Assessment of the student’s academic, social, and athletic involvement, along with their potential for growth in these areas. Insight into extracurricular activities, community service, and leadership, highlighting key opportunities like Governor’s School, summer programs, Eagle Scout or Gold Award, Boys and Girls State, People-to-People programs, and study abroad options. Evaluation of how academic achievements, extracurricular activities, leadership, and service experiences align with college admissions goals. Detailed review and walkthrough of the college admissions process. Calculated probability of college admissions, tailored to the student’s profile. Comprehensive discussion on college costs, merit scholarships, and financial aid opportunities. Targeted recommendations to increase college acceptance and merit scholarships. Curated list of potential colleges for the family and student to research and evaluate. Expert advice on working effectively with the school guidance department. All-Inclusive Package (11th-12th grades) Who is this for? The All-Inclusive Package provides students and families with full-service support in navigating the entire college admissions process from identifying colleges to explore, selecting target colleges, resume development, interviewing practice, application organization and completion, essay development and editing, and merit aid opportunities. Our expert, compassionate coaches will alleviate family stress and anxiety for the entire application year. Deliverables include: College Admissions Initial Consultation College Selection Decision Matrix (CSDM): Customized research for the colleges listed in the outlining up to 30 potential colleges for consideration listing average required SAT/ACT scores, GPA, student/teacher ratio, male/female student body ratio, majors, athletics and other qualitative and quantitative data points; ranked by admissions probability College Admissions Initial Consultation Individualized for each student developed from our 60-thousand-data-point Master College Selection Decision Matrix listing up to 30 colleges/universities for consideration. CSDM One-hour meeting with student and parent(s) to evaluate the CSDM Student Resume Development: Cornerstone of the Application Process Two-hour Student/Parent to develop the initial Student Resume Resume Workshop Three to four edits to ensure an excellent admissions branding document. Meet and Greet Interview Practice Two-hour interactive in which students practice meeting and greeting admissions staff at: Interview Workshop * College Visits and Tours * College Fairs * College Visits in High School Settings * Admissions and Alumni Interviews Students learn to greet, shake hands, offer and deliver a Student Resume. Students will have a practiced introduction. Students are prepared to ask and respond to questions. Application Completion Workshops : Two-hour workshop to gather all data needed to complete the Common Application. Total Application Organization : Two-hour interactive workshop in which students and parents have coaches at their fingertips to guide and answer questions as they complete the Common Application. Application Working Session Essay Development : Two-hour workshop with student and parent(s) to outline and write the major Essay Workshop Common Application essay : One-hour session with PT’s expert coaches to complete essays. Essay Working Session Development and editing of two final essays. Merit Aid Scholarship Research Each application year, PT’s expert coaches research merit aid/scholarship opportunities for every college under consideration by our students. Each student receives a detailed laying out: Merit Aid Prospectus * College and Location * Application Deadline * University-wide Scholarships * GPA/SAT/ACT requirements * “Standard” Academic Merit Aid * Service and Leadership Awards * Honors Programs * Leadership Programs * Application Process * Academic Common Market * Tailored Instructions to each PT Student * Average Annual Merit Aid * Tuition, Room & Board Estimate Advocacy: PT will represent the student’s strengths and passions to several college admissions officers, as appropriate, through phone calls, emails and in-person visits. Support: Services include: follow-up questions, emails, phone calls, research, admissions contact, etc. Final program choice : The PT coaches support students in weighing their alternatives and committing to a final college/university. The Elite Applicant Package (11th-12th grades) Who is this for? The Elite Applicant Package provides bespoke coaching to high-achieving students who intend to apply to the most competitive universities, including the 16 universities that make up the Public and Private Ivy Leagues. The Elite Applicant Package supports these singular students in developing a distinctive top applicant profile including the strongest of admissions, honors and scholarship essays. Elite applicants will have one or more mock interviews in preparation for rigorous private interviews on college campuses and for scholarship competitions. Elite applicants will receive support in writing up to FIVE admissions essays. Deliverables include: College Admissions Initial Consultation All-Inclusive Package PLUS: Mock interview 15 minutes of interview preparation including idea organization and practice 30 minutes of formal interview practice 15 minutes of evaluative debrief Three-five page Professional Tutoring Interview Report Essay Development (up to five essays) The All-Inclusive Package’s two essays Two additional essays Two full hours of Essay Working Session Candidate’s Choice Fifth Essay Editing OR Elite Mock Interview to prepare for the most rigorous Ivy League, Scholarship or Leadership Interview
