The best way to make filing your income taxes less painful and time-consuming is to file online. In 2024, close to 40% of taxpayers used tax software or online services to do their taxes. The top tax-prep companies offer both free and paid tiers, along with robust live and AI-powered support and guarantee their accuracy and that they've gotten you the biggest refund possible. Some will even provide you with an interest-free advance on your refund. CNBC Select has run more than a dozen tax software programs through their paces to find the best in a variety of categories. For more on how we made our selections, see our methodology . Costs may vary depending on the plan selected but take advantage of a limited time offer - 70% off for 3 months* Save over 30 hours in business accounting per month with the AI-Powered Intuit Assist. Users can use app to do invoicing, accept payments, manage their cash flow, maximize tax deductions, track travel miles, run reports, send estimates, manage bills and 1099 contractors, plus pay employees On Intuit's site Terms apply. Best for ease of use: TurboTax TurboTax Free version TurboTax Free Edition. Simple Form 1040 returns only (no schedules except for earned income tax credit, child tax credit and student loan interest). TurboTax reports that 37% of files qualify for the free edition. Guarantee Guarantees 100% accuracy and maximum refund Live support Live Assisted plan includes unlimited assistance and final review. Live Full Service includes a dedicated expert to complete and file your return. Tax refund advance loan Yes Read our review of TurboTax tax software Pros Step-by-step guidance with easy-to-follow Q&A format On-demand advice and a final review from a tax expert Live Full Service plan has a tax expert who can complete your return Offers tax refund advance loan Cons More expensive than other tax-prep software programs May try to upsell you into getting pricier plan Who's this for? TurboTax guides you through each step of the filing process with straightforward questions and access to explainers, videos and bonus tips. Pricier tiers come with more live support or the option of letting a professional file for you. Standout features: TurboTax guarantees 100% accuracy and the maximum refund possible, audit support for your tax return, plus tax refund advance loans. Online plans : Free, Live Assisted Basic, Business, Deluxe, Premium Best for affordability: TaxSlayer TaxSlayer Free version Yes Guarantee Guarantees 100% accuracy and maximum refund Live support Simply Free and Classic: Phone and email support, Premium: Priority phone support and live chat, Self-Employed: Access to a tax pro with self-employed expertise Tax refund advance loan No Pros Free plan can be used for federal and state returns Paid tiers are cheaper than many competitors Guarantees accuracy and maximum refund IRS inquiry and audit support with select plans Cons Free edition limited has income cap of $100,000 and doesn't allow you to claim dependents. Experts only available with Premium and Self-Employed plans Who's this for? TaxSlayer's rates are already lower than those of many competitors, but its packages are priced based on your tax situation and the level of support you want. If you're a confident filer, you can save by skipping features like chat support. Standout features: TaxSlayer has lots of features for self-employed people, including extensive FAQs, reminders about quarterly estimated tax payments and access to a tax pro with self-employed expertise Online plans : Simply Free, Classic, Premium, Self-Employed, Military Best accuracy guarantee: TaxAct TaxAct Free version Yes Guarantee Guarantees 100% accuracy and maximum refund Live support Xpert Assist is available with any plan for a flat fee Tax refund advance loan No Pros More affordable than other paid software programs Accuracy guarantee covers legal fees up to $100,000 All plans come with live support from tax experts Free tier can process both federal and state returns Cons Returns with freelance or investment income don't qualify for free plan Doesn't offer tax refund advance loan Who's this for? Concerned about accuracy? If you're penalized because of a mistake TaxAct made, the company will not only refund the cost of your software and pay the difference in your tax bill, it will reimburse any penalties or interest and cover legal or audit fees up to $100,000. Standout features: TaxAct's Deduction Maximizer tool can suggest deduction options based on your situation. Online plans : Free, Deluxe, Premier, Self-Employed Best for live support: H&R Block H&R Block Free version Yes Guarantee Guarantees 100% accuracy and maximum refund Customer support AI Tax Assist and unlimited live chat available with all paid plans Tax refund advance loan Not with H&R Block Online Read our review of H&R Block online Pros Simple step-by-step guidance Free plan takes federal and state returns 100% accuracy and maximum refund guarantees Thousands of branches for in-person help Cons More expensive than competitors Must have a paid plan to speak with a live tax expert Refund advance loans not available for online customers. Who's this for? Need help when you file? Real-time support from H&R Block's AI Tax Assist feature, online chat with a tax professional and Worry-Free Audit Support are available with all paid tiers. H&R Block also has thousands of offices nationwide for in-person support. Standout benefits : H&R Block's free tier lets you file both federal and state simple returns for free with no income restrictions. It covers situations many competitors don't, including unemployment insurance and deductions for education costs. Online plans : Free, Deluxe, Premium, Self-Employed Best for filing state taxes: Jackson Hewitt Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Cost A flat fee of $25 for online filing Free version No Mobile app No Live support Free live chat support, plus an option to file in an office Terms apply. Pros Simple step-by-step guidance that's easy to follow A low flat fee for all types of returns Free live chat support Maximum refund guarantee Satisfaction guarantee 100% accuracy guarantee Cons No free filing option No mobile app Who's this for? Jackson Hewitt charges a flat $25 fee for DIY federal and state returns — no matter how many states you need to file. Other operations can charge upwards for $40 for each state filing. Standout benefits : Like pricier operations, Jackson Hewitt offers free informational audit assistance and accuracy and maximum refund guarantees. Online plans : $25 e-file plan, regardless of the complexity of your return. It does not import tax documents from competitors and other sources Best for free filing: Cash App Taxes Cash App Taxes Free version Yes Guarantee Guarantees 100% accuracy and maximum refund Live support No Tax refund advance loan No Read our review of Cash App Taxes Pros Completely free Audit defense if the IRS audits your tax return Can get refund five days earlier if deposited in Cash App account Cons No support from tax professionals Most information must be input manually Can't file returns for multiple states Who's this for? Straightforward and free, Cash App Taxes is best for DIY filers who know what they're doing. You can file state and federal returns for free with access to nearly every IRS form and schedule, although there's no real professional support and multistate returns aren't supported. Standout features: Cash App Taxes includes free audit defense with every return. Online plans : Free What is tax software and how does it work? There are three main ways to file a tax return: A paper return sent through the mail, working with a tax professional or using tax-prep software. Commercial tax-prep software programs are the preferred method for 44% of tax filers. They allow you to go at your own pace anywhere you can go online, with step-by-step guidance and access to professional support. The IRS has launched Direct File, a free web-based platform that allows taxpayers in 24 states to file their returns online. Direct File is only available for simple returns, however, and there are income limits. In addition, there's not much in the way of live support. Since most tax software companies offer a variety of packages, you'll need to decide which tier is right for you. That will determine both the forms you need to fill out and the price you'll pay. Once you make your selection, you'll be prompted to answer questions about your finances for the year and upload relevant tax forms. Most companies will offer to file your return to the IRS or state revenue department on your behalf. If you got an early start, the system may have to wait until tax filing season officially begins You should also be able to arrange your tax refund through the software company and, in some cases, deduct the cost of their services for a fee. What is a simple tax return? Simple tax returns are the most basic type of return you can file. Software companies vary in their criteria, but a simple return is generally prepared using IRS Form 1040 and is limited to: W-2 income Limited interest and dividend income Standard deduction Unemployment income Some tax filing programs will include limited credits as part of a simple return, including the Earned Income Tax Credit, child tax credits and student loan/education deductions. Offers in this section are from affiliate partners and selected based on a combination of engagement, product relevance, compensation, and consistent availability. Xpert Assist is available with any plan for a flat fee Guarantees 100% accuracy and maximum refund Terms Apply Live Assisted plan includes unlimited assistance and final review. Live Full Service includes a dedicated expert to complete and file your return. Guarantees 100% accuracy and maximum refund Terms Apply How to choose the best tax software There are a lot of choices for tax-prep software, both cloud-based and desktop. Here's what you should look for when deciding on the package that works for you. Ease of use Affordability is important but if the platform is confusing or frustrating, it's not worth saving a few bucks. Is the interface intuitive? Can you upload previous years' tax documents? Are you guided through the process with straightforward questions? See if there's a walkthrough or a free trial to give it a test drive. Read customer reviews both on the website and on third-party sites like Trustpilot. Supported tax forms The best tax-prep software isn't much use if it can't process the kind of return you need to file or puts it on a pricey tier. If you have a simple return with a Form 1040 and standard deductions, almost any program can do the trick with its most basic offering. But if you're a gig worker, collected income in several states or have investment properties, you'll probably need a more advanced plan. Price Cost is always a concern, but don't be fooled: Less-than-scrupulous companies may try to lure you with the promise of a no-cost return only to reveal you don't qualify when you're deep in the process. Even if you have a simple return, you may have to pay extra to have both your state and federal returns processed. Before shopping for tax software, assess your needs: Will you be itemizing or taking the standard deduction? Are you self-employed or have income from a lot of different sources? Will you need to file state returns in more than one state? Will you need live assistance from a tax expert? Your answers should guide you to the right tier and give you a more accurate price comparison. Keep in mind that the price listed on a website might not include all the charges you'll pay. In addition, rates often rise as Tax Day gets closer. User support A good tax software platform should have calculators, explainers and video tutorials to help DIYers. You should also see what kind of live support is offered and what the charges are. Options could range from phone access to a final review by a representative to step-by-step guidance by a tax professional. Some tax-prep software companies also have audit support from tax professionals Guarantees All of our picks offer an accuracy guarantee, so if an error they make results in IRS fines or penalties, they'll foot the cost. They also guarantee that you're paying the least amount or getting the biggest return possible. If you get a larger refund or owe less after filing an amended return from another tax-prep method, they'll refund the cost of their program. Is tax software worth it? Using a tax software program, either paid or free, is worth it for nearly half of American taxpayers. If you have a fairly simple tax situation — you're only reporting income from Form W-2 and taking the standard deduction, for example — using tax software probably makes sense. If you own a business, itemize your deductions, have lots of investments or earn income from side gigs, working with a CPA could be a better way to ensure your return is accurate and that you're receiving all the deductions you're eligible for. More on our top tax software companies TaxSlayer TaxSlayer offers cloud-based tax preparation programs available from its website or mobile app. It is a member of the Free File Alliance, which offers free tax services to people who meet income requirements. You can have the cost of your plan deducted from your refund for $39.99. Free version: Simply Free can be used fo r federal and state returns (Form 1040 + limited credits only) Live support: Simply Free and ClassicFree come with phone and email support, the Premium plan comes with priority phone support and live chat, while the Self-Employed tier includes access to a tax pro with self-employed expertise. Guarantee: Maximum refund and 100% accuracy guarantees Tax refund advance loan: No TaxAct Iowa-based TaxAct is a member of the Free File Alliance, a partnership with the IRS that makes free returns available to eligible taxpayers. If you don't qualify for free filing, you can pay for the service with your tax refund for a $54 processing fee. Free version: Federal returns (Form 1040 and limited credits only) Live support: TaxAct Xpert Assist is available with any plan for a flat $60 fee Guarantee: Maximum refund guarantee and $100,000 accuracy guarantee Tax refund advance loan: No TurboTax TurboTax from Intuit offers a variety of plans, from DIY to full-service and options for small businesses. You can pay with your refund for a $40 processing fee. Free version: Federal and state returns (Form 1040 + limited credits only) Live support: The Live Assisted plan includes unlimited assistance and final review, while Live Full Service includes a dedicated expert to complete and file your return. Guarantees: Maximum refund and 100% accuracy guarantees Tax refund advance loan : Up to $4,000 H&R Block H&R Block serves taxpayers online, over the phone and in thousands of branches nationwide. Refunds deposited into Spruce mobile app accounts may be available up to five days early. Free version: For federal and state returns (Form 1040 and limited credits only) Live support: H&R Block's AI Tax Assist and unlimited live chat are free with all paid plans and a review by a tax pro is available for a fee. Guarantee: Maximum refund and 100% accuracy guarantees Tax refund advance loan : Up to $4,000 (not available with online edition) Jackson Hewitt In addition to its low-cost online version, you can get assistance from Jackson Hewitt tax pros at one of its 5,200 offices nationwide or stop by a participating Walmart location. (Prices start at $49 for federal returns but may vary depending on the state and your filing situation.) Free version: None Live support: Expert chat available during tax season Mondays to Fridays from 9 a.m. to 11 p.m. and Saturdays from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Guarantee: Maximum refund and 100% accuracy guarantees Tax refund advance loan : Up to $3,500 available if you file before Feb. 16, 2025. Cash App Taxes Cash App Taxes is the tax-prep arm of Cash App, a financial platform that allows you to invest, send and receive money and more. Filers can get their returns six days earlier if they set up direct deposit with a Cash App account. You must successfully file a federal return with Cash App before you can e-file your state return. Free version: Federal and state returns, both simple returns and with multiple 1099s (e-filing for Montana not available) Live support: Not available Guarantee: Maximum refund and 100% accuracy guarantees Tax refund advance loan : No Pros and cons of tax software Cheaper than hiring a tax professional Can often autofill data from previous tax years Allows you to file at your own pace May be able to pay for software out of your refund Not as much personalization as working with a CPA Free tiers are usually limited to simple returns The company may try to upsell you or misrepresent what package you need Your financial data may be sold to third parties Tax software FAQs When are taxes due? The tax deadline to file federal tax returns is April 15, 2025. Residents in regions declared FEMA disaster areas have been given additional time, however. What happens if I miss the tax deadline? If you miss the deadline and owe money, you'll incur a penalty (which only gets pricier the longer you wait). If you have a refund coming, however, you won't incur a penalty. What is the standard deduction? The standard deduction is a blanket deduction that taxpayers can take without itemizing their deductions. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 supersized the standard deduction, making itemizing unnecessary for many more Americans. In tax year 2025, the standard deduction is $15,750 for single filers or married couples filing separately, $31,500 for married couples filing jointly and $23,625 for heads of household. When will I get my tax refund? The IRS typically issues refunds within 21 days of receiving an online return, provided there are no mistakes or issues. If you file a paper return, however, it could take up to eight weeks. Why trust CNBC Select? At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed financial decisions. Every tax software review is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of tax software products . While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics. Subscribe to the CNBC Select Newsletter! Money matters — so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here. Our methodology To determine the best tax software, CNBC Select analyzed more than a dozen top offerings, examining cost, ease of use, live support, accuracy, maximum-refund guarantee and other features. Cost was one of the most important factors in our process. All the companies on this list offer free tiers, but we also evaluated the cost of paid tiers and weighed their features, such as the ability to maximize deductions and credits. Ease of use is crucial to completing a tax return quickly and with little frustration. The services we chose have intuitive interfaces with simple question-and-answer prompts. The ability to talk with a tax expert is a big plus. All but one of the companies we chose offer live support. All of our picks guarantee both accuracy and the maximum refund possible for customers. We also considered CNBC Select audience data when available, such as general demographics and engagement with our content and tools. Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards , banking and money , and follow us on TikTok , Facebook , Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date. Read more Editorial Note: Opinions, analyses, reviews or recommendations expressed in this article are those of the Select editorial staff’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any third party.
