The Growing Demand for Cybersecurity Talent: Why Now is the Perfect Time to Dive In The demand for cybersecurity professionals is increasing, and it’s not just a trend. As cyberattacks continue to evolve, both private organizations and governments are scrambling to protect sensitive data. The good news? You can take advantage of this growing need by learning the critical skills online to thrive in the cybersecurity industry. Online courses and training programs offer an affordable way to learn information security basics and advanced concepts. Despite the increasing demand, many positions remain unfilled due to a shortage of qualified professionals. In fact, 82% of employers report difficulty finding talent to fill these roles. This means there’s a significant opportunity for you to enter the field now, equip yourself with the right skills, and land a career in one of the most in-demand industries today. Get started with these Free Online Cyber Security Courses . The cybersecurity industry is waiting — are you ready to join? 24 FREE Cyber Security Courses Online With Certificates of Validation from EC-Council Learning for All Enroll for our free and comprehensive online cyber security courses today to kickstart your cybersecurity career! Free Cyber Security Courses for Beginners for all. A Practical Introduction to Cloud Computing (Free Course for All) Learn Cloud Computing through easy-to-understand explanations and real-world practical examples. What You Will Learn: Understand the IaaS options, including virtual machines on shared physical servers, virtual machines on dedicated servers, and dedicated bare-metal servers. Deploy a virtual machine on Amazon Web Services (AWS) IaaS. Deploy an application on IBM Bluemix PaaS. Understand the building blocks of Cloud Computing. Learn about IaaS, PaaS, SaaS, and XaaS, and understand how they differ from each other. …and more. (Register Now) For Instant FREE Course Access. 2. Cybersecurity for Businesses – The Fundamental Edition (Free Course for all) Get the knowledge you need to protect your business and reduce your risk from numerous threats targeting your company. What You Will Learn: Identifying business critical data Developing a risk awareness culture Assessing and managing cyber risks for your business (Register Now) For Instant FREE Course Access. 3. Android Bug Bounty Hunting: Hunt Like a Rat (Free Course for all) Embark on a journey to uncover vulnerabilities in Android systems, equipped with practical hacking skills. What You Will Learn: Mobile Bug Bounty Hunting Bug Bounty Methodology How to set up an Android Bug Bounty Lab intricacies of Bug Bounty Path Variables (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 4. Introduction to Dark Web, Anonymity, and Cryptocurrency (Free Course for all) Navigate the dark web and understand the intricacies of anonymity and cryptocurrency for heightened cybersecurity. What You Will Learn: Accessing dark web safely Accessing information with being anonymous to everyone Effectively use Tor Browser and Proxychain (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 5. Build Your Own NetApp Storage Lab (Free Course for all) Learn to set up a complete NetApp ONTAP lab for free, enhancing your skills in cloud storage management. What You Will Learn: How to build a fully ready and complete NetApp simulator lab from scratch using ONTAP 9 Configuring and testing almost all NetApp features using your own free lab. How to configure the networking (Register Now) For Instant FREE Course Access. 6. Introduction to SAN and NAS Storage (Free Course for all) Explore Storage Area Networks (SAN) and Network Attached Storage (NAS), vital components of IT infrastructure. What You Will Learn: The basics plus more of Storage Area Networks and Network Attached Storage The difference between SAN and NAS Connecting to CIFS (SMB) NAS storage from a Windows client Connecting to NFS storage from a Linux client Connecting to iSCSI storage from a Windows client Performing a basic configuration of SAN and NAS storage on a NetApp storage system …and more. (Register Now) For Instant FREE Course Access. 7. Cisco LABS Crash Course (Free Course for all) Learn to Configure Cisco routers to optimize internet service sharing, mastering essential networking skills. What You Will Learn How DHCP client works on Cisco IOS and how to configure it How to connect the Cisco Router to the internet Configuring DHCP server on Cisco IOS Configuring Port Address Translation (PAT) on Cisco IOS (Register Now) For Instant FREE Course Access. 8. SQL Injection Attacks Master the art of SQL Injection attacks, a common vulnerability exploited by cyber attackers. What You Will Learn: The basics of SQL Injection attacks Using kali linux database Penetration testing tools Performing SQL Injection attacks (Register Now) For Instant FREE Course Access. 9. Configure Juniper SRX Router using J-Web Learn to configure Juniper SRX routers using J-Web interface, enhancing your proficiency in network security. What You Will Learn: Connecting via console to the Juniper SRX Router The steps needed to allow the Juniper SRX router to share internet Using J-Web to configure the Juniper SRX Router Testing the configuration done on the SRX Router (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 10. Python for Absolute Beginners (Free Course for all) If you want to learn how to program, you will LOVE this course! This course was designed for complete beginners with little to no understanding of programming and will give you the knowledge to get started coding using Python 3. What You Will Learn: The basics of Python Programming How to install Python How to run Python scripts in terminal How to setup PyCharm IDE (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 11. Selenium Automation Testing for Beginners Discover the basics of Selenium automation tool and unleash its potential in web testing. What You Will Learn: The basics of Selenium automation tool, including, setup, running code on chrome browser Identifying web elements on a web page using locators and identifiers in Selenium WebDriver Synchronizing your application under test with Selenium code using waits in Selenium WebDriver Performing Mouse Operations (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 12. Introduction to Raspberry Pi (Free Course for all) Delve into the world of Raspberry Pi and Python programming to create innovative software and hardware projects What You Will Learn: Setting up your Raspberry Pi and running the Raspbian operating system Basic Linux commands and Python programming Developing a number guessing game using Python How to write Python code to control Raspberry Pi hardware Creating intricate light patterns for a Christmas tree using Raspberry Pi (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 13. Learn Brackets – The Open Source Text Editor (Free Course for all) Familiarize yourself with Brackets, the open-source code editor, and explore its features for efficient coding. What You Will Learn: Downloading and installing Brackets Using brackets to edit documents Installing and removing plugins and themes (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 14. Hardware projects using Raspberry pi (Free Course for all) Learn to leverage Raspberry Pi for hardware projects and unleash its potential in the physical world. What You Will Learn: Creating Raspberry Pi based Walky Talky Building light detector mechanism Building a motion detector using PIR motion sensor Step by step code to build the project (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 15. Agile: A Concise Introduction (Free Course for all) Gain insights into Agile principles and methodologies, fostering collaborative and adaptive project management. What You Will Learn: Agile basics The exact mindset and principles used to deliver a project using agile along with the history of Agile Complete, Concise, Confident Overview of Agile principles (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 16. Learn Python 3 with Turtle(Free Course for all) Master the fundamentals of Python 3 programming using Turtle graphics, paving the way for data science exploration What You Will Learn: Basics of Python Programming Language Installation of Python Working with IDLE Visualizations with Turtle Library (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 17. Introduction to TypeScript (Free Course for all) Harness the power of TypeScript to develop robust and scalable web applications with type safety. What You Will Learn: How to Compile, Test and Run TypeScript on your workstation Using TypeScript classes and type annotations Building and running a simple app using TypeScript (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 18. DIY Bluetooth Phone Controlled BB-8 Droid with Arduino (Free Course for all) Construct your own BB-8 Droid controlled via smartphone app, combining hardware and software development skills. What You Will Learn: DIY Bluetooth Phone Controlled BB-8 Droid with Arduino How to program SD card adapter to play music How to deploy program into Arduino and use it wirelessly Building functional BB-8 droids (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 19. Scrum : A Concise Introduction (Free Course for all) Explore the Scrum framework for efficient project delivery, enhancing productivity and adaptability. What You Will Learn: What scrum is and why it is so powerful for delivering even the most complex project on time Scrum practices and techniques to deliver your project on time The difference between Agile and Scrum The Waterfall Model is and why it is less flexible than Agile (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 20. Kanban : A Concise Introduction (Free Course for all) Discover the Kanban method to streamline workflow visualization and optimize team efficiency. What You Will Learn: Kanban overview Why Kanban is so powerful for maintaining the highest level of production without overloading your team or business How the kanban style workflow helps to manage tasks more effectively (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 21. Agile Product Management : A Concise Introduction (Free Course for all) Dive into Agile product management principles, enabling iterative and customer-centric product development. What You Will Learn: The basic difference between a traditional Product Manager and an Agile Product Manager The fundamentals of how to manage a product using Agile Scrum Scrum Product Owner Principles Agile Product Owner Basics (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 22. Jira Agile Project Management + Jira Administration + Jira Agile (Free Course for all) Harness the power of Jira for agile project management and administration, ensuring seamless project execution. What You Will Learn: Foundations of delivering any project, product or service using Jira How to set up your first project in Jira, the number 1 tool used to manage Agile projects (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 23. Ultimate JavaScript Strings (Free Course for all) Master the art of handling strings in JavaScript and leverage its capabilities to streamline your coding tasks. What You Will Learn: Strings overview How to combine strings from multiple strings How to change the case and parts of strings Using ES6 template strings Using the parsing features of JavaScript to turn strings into numbers (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 24. Raspberry Pi based Smart Emergency Alert System Helmet (Free Course for all) Build a smart helmet using Raspberry Pi Zero, integrating IoT technology for enhanced safety features. What You Will Learn: Building your own Smart Helmet Working on Cloud Server and Raspberry Pi Fetching accident location remotely and preview in Google Maps Sending an automated test alert using free SMS client upon accident (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 5 Newly Added Online Courses Offering Free Cyber Security Training 1. IoT With Raspberry Pi 4 Learn the fundamentals of IoT with Raspberry Pi 4 and build IoT solutions from scratch What You Will Learn: How to use your Raspberry Pi 4 in IoT projects In-depth understanding of fundamental IoT concepts How to use and work with the Cayenne IoT and ThingSpeak platforms Implementing a no code project using the Cayenne platform Implementing end-to-end IoT project using MQTT API in ThingSpeak (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access 2. Scrum Certification + Scrum Master + Agile Scrum Training This course covers the overview of Scrum Agile project management, common questions, and useful tips to pass PSM scrum org ONLINE Scrum Master Certification. What You Will Learn: What scrum is and why it is so powerful for delivering even the most complex project on time Scrum practices and techniques to deliver your project on time The difference between Agile and Scrum The difference between roles, events, and artifacts The updates in the latest version of the scrum guide. (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 3. Quick Start Guide to Oracle SOA 12c Gain an understanding of the differences between Oracle SOA 12c QuickStart and Oracle SOA 12c enterprise deployments. What You Will Learn: Creating an OTN account Downloading Oracle SOA 12c Quick Start Distribution Preparing environment for installation Installing Oracle SOA 12c Quick Start Distribution on Linux and Windows (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 4. Beginning Oracle WebLogic for Administrators Introductory course to Oracle WebLogic 12c. Learn how to download, install, and create WebLogic domains. What You Will Learn: Basic WebLogic Concepts Installing WebLogic Creating a WebLogic Domain Accessing the WebLogic Admin Console (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. 5. Make In-house Hacking & Pentesting Lab Gain a solid understanding of how to set up and utilize a virtual pentesting lab effectively. What You Will Learn: How to start penetration testing with your single computer and build own LAB How to start penetration testing for networks, computers, and web applications attacks practices How to leverage Burp Suite for security testing, including fuzzing input parameters, detecting validation flaws, and exploiting remote code execution vulnerabilities (Register Now)For Instant FREE Course Access. Take the First Step with Free Cyber Security Training for Beginners Start your journey with our free cybersecurity training for beginners and build a strong foundation in cybersecurity concepts online. Take advantage of this opportunity to gain hands-on skills and kickstart your career in one of today’s most in-demand fields. Register Today. EC-Council’s 8 Essential Series designed to build technical foundational skills ($299 Each): With this cybersecurity course, students will gain strong foundations in ethical hacking and penetration testing that will help create your pathway to an entry-level career in cybersecurity. With this cybersecurity course, you will build strong foundations in network defense and information security facets that can help prepare you for a career in cybersecurity. NDE highlights the fundamentals of network security and protocols, network security controls, understanding identity and access management, and more. The DFE was designed to help beginners grasp the foundations of digital forensics with hands-on skills and validate their knowledge as information security professionals. This cybersecurity course will teach learners the steps, practices, and methodologies to follow during a digital forensics investigation. This course will furnish you with the abilities that you want to comprehend the fundamental and fundamental parts of Cloud Security. You will get familiar with the basics of distributed computing and the fundamental parts of getting personalities, information, and applications inside cloud suppliers and cross breed frameworks. In the wake of finishing this tasks, you will be ready to push toward a lifelong in cloud security and make the following strides in cloud security certificates. IoT security Essentials (ISE) EC-Council’s IoT Security Essentials program comprehensively covers topics essential to ensuring the security of Internet of Things (IoT) systems. From understanding basic IoT concepts to addressing advanced security threats, students will gain the knowledge and skills to design, deploy, and maintain secure IoT solutions. The participants will combine theoretical learning and practical exercises to learn IoT fundamentals, network and communication protocols, cloud integration, threat intelligence, incident response, and security engineering principles. DevSecOps Essentials (DSE) The DevSecOps Essentials program provides fundamental knowledge and critical aspects of secure application development (DevSecOps). This course offers vital insights into identifying risks in application development and securing and testing applications on-premises, across cloud providers, and in hybrid infrastructure. After completing this program, you will be ready for a career in secure application development. SOC Essentials (SCE) The SOC Essentials (SCE) series is tailored to help security professionals and newcomers build essential security technology skills and knowledge. It focuses on the skills needed in Security Operations Centers (SOCs) to prepare individuals for a career in cybersecurity. This course begins with basic computer networking and security concepts and then moves on to cyber threats, vulnerabilities, and attack types. Provides an overview of Security Operations Center (SOC) architecture and discusses advanced SOC topics such as SIEM architecture and data sources. Additionally, learn about log management with a focus on events, logs, incidents, and centralization. The course covers incident detection and analysis including dashboards, reports, and alarm handling. Additionally, threat intelligence and hunting is explored, leading to incident response and lifecycle processes. This program is designed to deepen your understanding of basic threat intelligence concepts, highlight the differences between intelligence, data, and information, and emphasize their critical role in cybersecurity. Explore the threat intelligence lifecycle and explore its implications for team roles, ethical and legal issues, and the importance of measuring effectiveness. Throughout the program, you will master different types of threat intelligence – strategic, operational, tactical and technical – and learn how each contributes to compliance and risk management. Participate in hands-on activities including data collection, analysis, and use of Threat Intelligence Platforms (TIPs) for threat hunting and detection. The course concludes with a focus on continuous learning and staying ahead of cybersecurity trends. FAQ Cybersecurity is the practice of implementing tools, technologies, and controls to safeguard systems, networks, and programs against cyberattacks. It encompasses collective methodologies and best practices to protect an organization’s sensitive data and assets from complex internal and external threats. The cybersecurity domain has grown immensely with the surge in internet-enabled devices and cloud adoption. With constant technological advancements making information digitally accessible through the internet, the need to adopt a robust cybersecurity strategy has intensified. Cybersecurity measures are crucial to protect all types of data (sensitive and personal information, protected health information (PHI), personally identifiable information (PII), etc.) against loss, theft, and legal complications. As cyberattack techniques continue to evolve, the cybersecurity job market is inevitably expected to grow in leaps and bounds. The increasing frequency and sophistication of cybercrimes today require businesses of all sizes to hire skilled professionals to help identify and mitigate data breach impacts efficiently. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, job openings for Information Security Analysts alone are to rise 35 percent from 2021 to 2031, much faster than the average for all occupations (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2022). The cybersecurity industry has seen consistent growth in terms of employment opportunities and still forecasts a huge demand. To fulfill the growing market demand, it is essential to build trained professionals with skills in crucial cybersecurity domains. The constant need for professionals across industries makes cybersecurity a lucrative field with enormous earning potential based on a candidate’s skill set. Cybersecurity is a dynamic space that requires entry-level, mid-level, and senior-level professionals to tackle various cybersecurity issues. The job roles depend on the specific cybersecurity domain and can vary from entry-level positions like ‘Cybersecurity Specialists’ to high-level positions like ‘Cybersecurity Architects.’ Below are some highly sought-after cybersecurity job roles to help you understand the in-demand job skills and career options better (Swanston, 2022). Job Roles: Entry-Level Mid-Level Advanced-Level Cybersecurity Specialist Cybersecurity Analyst Cybersecurity Manager Cybercrime Analyst Cybersecurity Consultant Cybersecurity Engineer Incident and Intrusion Analyst Penetration and Vulnerability Tester Cybersecurity Architect IT Auditor While it is true that cybersecurity is a completely technical domain, it is not imperative to possess coding experience to pursue a career in cybersecurity. Candidates with non-technical skills can also opt for careers in cybersecurity if they possess analytical and critical thinking abilities. But having coding or programming experience will help aspirants flourish in this sector and climb up the growth ladder with advanced job options. Yes, you get a validation of completion for each course you complete on the EC-Council Learning platform. Some of the courses would require you to pass a final assessment first though. Your access to any free course lasts for one year, which means you can learn with all your free courses for an entire year before your access expires. Yes! These free cyber security training courses are delivered online, allowing you to learn at your own pace. These 25+ free cyber security training courses cover a wide range of skills, including programming and scripting, bug bounty hunting, cloud computing, networking, project management, and agile methodologies. Whether you’re a beginner or looking to enhance your expertise, these courses provide essential cybersecurity knowledge at no cost. References Lewis, J.A. (2019, January 29). The cybersecurity workforce gap. Center for Strategic & International Studies. https://www.csis.org/analysis/cybersecurity-workforce-gap Morgan, S. (2021, November 9). Cybersecurity jobs report: 3.5 million openings in 2025. Cybersecurity Ventures. https://cybersecurityventures.com/jobs/ Payscale. (2022, Dec 6). Average Cyber Security Engineer Salary. https://www.payscale.com/research/US/Job=Cyber_Security_Engineer/Salary Payscale. (2022, Dec 4). Average Senior Cyber Security Engineer Salary. https://www.payscale.com/research/US/Job=Senior_Cyber_Security_Engineer/Salary Payscale. (2022, Dec 5). Average Cyber Security Engineer Salary in India. https://www.payscale.com/research/IN/Job=Cyber_Security_Engineer/Salary Payscale. (2022, Oct 29). Average Cyber Security Engineer Salary in Australia. https://www.payscale.com/research/AU/Job=Cyber_Security_Engineer/Salary Payscale. (2022, Dec 6). Average Cyber Security Engineer Salary in United Kingdom. https://www.payscale.com/research/UK/Job=Cyber_Security_Engineer/Salary Swanston B. (2022, September 7). What is a typical cybersecurity salary? Forbes Advisor. https://www.forbes.com/advisor/education/cyber-security-salary-outlook/ Hatten, M. 6 Highest-Paid Cyber Security Jobs & Salaries. Mondo. https://mondo.com/blog-highest-paid-cybersecurity-jobs/ U.S. BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS. OCCUPATIONAL OUTLOOK HANDBOOK. https://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/information-security-analysts.htm Cybersecurity CEH V12 "*" indicates required fields Cybersecurity CEH V12 "*" indicates required fields
