Free SEO Checker Test your website with Seobility's SEO Checker! Complying with search engine guidelines and making your content accessible to both traditional and AI crawlers are important factors for the success of your website. The SEO Checker analyzes your website and gives you tips on optimizing your site for long-term success in search engine optimization and AI search results! Seobility Premium Analyze more than just one URL and unlock all features of our SEO software suite: Comprehensive SEO audit for your entire website Ranking Monitoring Backlink Monitoring & Analysis Competitor Analysis And more! Can be canceled at any time! Automatically renews to our monthly Premium plan for $50/month. Free website checker Analyze any web page with the free SEO checker by Seobility to find technical errors and on-page SEO issues that might be holding your site back from top search engine rankings and visibility in AI answer engines. Get your free SEO score as well as individual sub-scores for each of the categories checked, including meta-information, page quality, page structure, link structure, server configuration, and external factors. With your prioritized task list of SEO improvements, you will immediately know where to start to achieve quick and noticeable results. Meta information To make sure that search engines and LLMs of AI tools understand what your website is about, you have to provide meta-information that helps them categorize your content. The Seobility SEO Checker identifies errors and SEO issues in your meta-information, such as: meta titles and descriptions that are too short or too long for the search result snippet meta tags that prevent search engines from indexing your website missing canonical links inconsistent language declarations problematic domain names or page URLs Page quality High-quality content is one of the most important SEO success factors. To help search engines process your content and rank it for relevant keywords, you should avoid page quality issues such as: too little text on one page duplicate content outdated website elements such as framesets poor optimization for mobile devices images without alt attributes ads that overlay your content Check these and other potential issues with the SEO Checker to eliminate all quality problems that are holding your content down! Page and link structure Search engines and AI crawlers prefer websites that are clearly structured and enable efficient crawling. The SEO Checker identifies problems that make it difficult for crawlers to analyze your website, including: H1 headings that are too short or too long wrong order of headings or empty heading tags internal links with dynamic parameters duplicate anchor texts of internal links unfavorable amount of internal or external links Server configuration An error-free and high-performing technical setup makes it easy for search engines and AI bots to crawl your website. It is a necessity for achieving top rankings. The SEO Checker will scan your web page for server errors and other technical issues like: wrongly configured redirect between www and non-www subdomains problems with your HTTP header long page response times high number of CSS and JavaScript files big HTML file size External factors SEO and AEO are not only about optimizing the website itself. For long-term SEO success, you also have to keep an eye on external factors that influence your search engine rankings and visibility in answer engines, most importantly backlinks. With the SEO checker, you can easily identify weaknesses your website might have in this area. Frequently asked questions questions The Seobility SEO checker is a tool that scans any web page for technical errors and SEO issues that can have a negative impact on search engine rankings and visibility in AI search. Use it to get a comprehensive list of errors found on your web page and find out where you still have to improve your website. The Seobility SEO checker crawls the URL you enter, similar to how search engines work. The page is then checked against more than 200 SEO relevant criteria: meta information, page quality, site structure, and others. Based on how well your website performs regarding these criteria, an individual SEO score is calculated and shown together with a complete list of errors found on your site. The Seobility SEO checker analyzes if your website meets criteria search engines use to determine your website’s ranking in search results. In order to do that more than 200 parameters in the categories of meta-information, page quality, page structure, link structure, server configuration, and external factors are checked and results are considered when calculating the SEO score. The individual SEO score of your website indicates how well the web page complies with search engines’ quality guidelines. One can roughly say, that if the score is higher than 80% it means that the web page is already well-optimized whereas a score below 80% shows that there’s still room for improvement. If the score is below 30% there are severe errors and SEO issues on your website you should definitely deal with. Yes, you can download a PDF file with your SEO check results by clicking on the “PDF Export” button right at the top of the results page. You can choose between a short and a complete version of the report and even upload your company logo to generate a personalized report. Please note that this is a feature of the Seobility Premium plan. You can improve your SEO score by fixing the errors and issues that the Seobility SEO checker found on your website. The task list of SEO improvements will show you which issues are the most important ones as eliminating them will have a noticeable impact on your SEO performance. Those are the tasks that you should first tackle when starting with the optimization of your website. There are several online tools you can use to check your rankings, e.g. the Seobility Ranking Checker. Just enter your domain and the search term you want to check. The tool will immediately display your domain’s ranking as well as the top 100 URLs ranking for this keyword. More free SEO tools Try all of these tools for free and without registration!
