News Product Management Certification Empower your news career with the technical and product expertise to lead strategic decision-making, drive innovation, and inspire change in the industry. in partnership with The NPMC is a rigorous, part-time , and virtual program designed for mid to senior-level news professionals that brings together a diverse cohort of 25-30 participants from across the global news industry. Our exclusive program is designed specifically for news professionals to gain the product strategy, technical expertise, and change management skills necessary to lead news product development and innovation. Our curriculum is built in response to conversations with hiring managers from the NPA Community and successful news product teams, including The New York Times, The Atlantic, New York Public Radio, CalMatters, and more, as well as community feedback we’ve received on the areas news product thinkers need more support. Our instruction materials include exclusive and recent case studies about news organizations developed by the NPA. Instructors are selected by the News Product Alliance and CUNY, and will include news product professionals from across the news industry. By joining NPMC, you’ll also become part of a powerful alumni network of over 100 news product professionals worldwide—many of whom have gone on to secure their organization’s first Chief Product Officer role, earn promotions, receive grants, launch new products, and be recognized with award nominations and industry recognition. Outcomes Those who successfully complete this program will: Gain an understanding of key product development and management methodologies used in top newsrooms and technology companies globally, the role of product management within a news organization, and how to introduce product management processes in their news organizations. Apply product management frameworks and concepts to real-life examples by working through real-life case studies from news organizations developed by the News Product Alliance. Develop their personal leadership style and change management skills , honing their communication and presentation abilities to effectively manage cross-departmental stakeholders and lead strategic decision-making . Be prepared to launch the next phase of their career in news product management. Participants will also receive a certificate that will open the door to new career opportunities in news product management. Program Timeline Applications for Cohort 5 are closed. The cohort will participate for 3.5 months in weekly live virtual sessions with experienced news product professionals. They will also receive reading materials, instructor-led discussions, and coaching sessions. At the end of the program, participants will present a final project that showcases their ability to lead strategic decision-making for a news product and receive a certificate of completion. What NPMC alumni have to say Meet the NPMC alumni NPMC alumni come from all over the world and hold titles such as Head of Product, Audience Development Director, and Homepage Editor, among others. They work at a variety of media organizations, including The New York Times, Reuters, The Texas Tribune, The 19th, CNN, QCity Metro, The Atlantic, BBC, Outlier Media and Nikkei. Meet the 2024 Cohort 1 Meet the 2024 Cohort 2 Meet the 2025 Cohort 3 Meet the 2025 Cohort 4 FAQ This course is for mid- to senior-level news professionals who are passionate about solving complex problems in the news industry with product solutions. We are looking for candidates who have some product experience from working on editorial products, and may work in mid-level or senior roles from any part of the organization, including editorial, technology, audience and revenue positions. This program is for you if you aim to: Transition from an editorial or other role into a formal product role. Improve your product strategy and lead your team to strategic outcomes. Lead with influence and manage change across a news organization . Deepen your technical understanding of digital products. Increase your earning potential and pursue higher leadership roles. Solidify your product management knowledge and build confidence in skills you’ve learned on the job. Learn from industry experts and network with peers in the field While you do not need to be in a leadership or management position to participate in this program, the NPMC is not an entry-level program. We are looking for participants who have some experience working in product development or product strategy and are prepared to lead through influence. For example, you worked on an email newsletter and had to consider monetization or subscription strategies; you worked on the ad sales team and researched new programming solutions when your organization introduced a paywall product; or you worked with editorial stakeholders to incorporate new features into the development of a content management system; among other possible scenarios. The expected time commitment is 3.5 months consists of an estimated 7-10 hours of studying and project work per week. Each week, participants will participate in live sessions, and they will be given reading materials to review, and other resources. Instructors will host live virtual sessions to review the learning materials and lead a group activity, such as a discussion or interactive exercise. Participants will also work with coaches to produce a final capstone project that showcases their ability to lead strategic decision-making for a news product. We ask participants to show up prepared to actively engage with group activities and follow our code of conduct to maintain a safe and inclusive learning environment. Our curriculum is informed by in-depth interviews with hiring managers from the NPA Community and successful news product teams, including those at The New York Times, The Atlantic, New York Public Radio, CalMatters, and more. We also gathered community feedback through our Mentor Network program and our exclusive case studies about news organizations developed by the NPA. The beginning of the course will strengthen your foundation of product management knowledge. Next, we’ll dive deeper into technical skill building with sessions to help participants improve hard skills, such as data analysis and technical communication. And lastly, we’ll cover how to integrate these skills and apply them to develop strategic solutions and lead with influence in your news organization. Yes, all selected participants will develop and present a product strategy. The goal of this project is to practice and hone the key skills you need for each stage of the product management cycle and how to communicate ideas effectively. Participants will start by identifying a problem or opportunity to focus on, then work to gain the insights necessary to make informed decisions. Next, they’ll synthesize those insights into possible solutions and a cohesive product strategy, so that they can communicate the ideas in a persuasive presentation. The focus of the final project is at every participant’s discretion. Examples include pitching a new product strategy to fill an audience gap, pivoting the strategy or adjusting features of an existing product, and sunsetting a product or feature that no longer meets the needs of the organization. Our core curriculum will be led by News Product Alliance team leaders, and we will invite expert practitioners from across the media and tech industry to join us as instructors and speakers, elevating the experience of the Cohort by bringing outside perspectives and deep expertise on key topics. Our potential instructor list includes a mix of well-known and emerging voices, bringing substantial and diverse perspectives to our curriculum, including instructors and coaches from NPMC Cohort 1, Cohort 2, Cohort 3, and Cohort 4. As this is a certification program, participants are expected to be actively engaged, which includes attendance at virtual sessions. Some course materials like lectures and readings will be provided for participants to prepare in advance. However, live attendance and participation during the sessions are required to ensure a full and engaging cohort experience. The classes will take place on Thursdays between the hours of 11 a.m to 1 p.m. Eastern Time. Additionally, Peer Circle sessions will be held every other Friday from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. ET The total cost is $5,500, which includes tuition, coaching, learning materials, and exclusive access to networking opportunities. We offer the option to make payments in installments. A limited number of full and partial financial support will be available. This process will not affect the application process and the financial support decisions will be made after being accepted to the program. Companies can secure spots for team members by committing to participate in the program. We only allow a maximum of two participants from the same newsroom in each cohort to ensure a diverse cohort experience. All participants will still need to submit an application. If your newsroom is interested in sending people to the program, please reach out for more information. Upon completion of the program, participants will receive a certificate of completion. This can be used to signal to employers that you’ve completed a rigorous training program and are equipped with product management skills. Yes! We welcome diverse perspectives from around the world in this virtual program. We highly encourage our global community of news product professionals to apply. No, it's not necessary to know the exact area of product management you want to pursue before applying. The motivation to develop your toolkit for leading product management processes is enough. The NPMC is focused on professionals who work in the media industry or have a background in media, and demonstrated experience and interest in journalism. However, the program can be valuable to other content-adjacent organizations and participants who aim to transition to a product role in the news industry. We encourage all who are interested to apply and reach out to our team if specific questions arise. Yes, the program is suitable for individuals from diverse backgrounds, including freelancers, those working in newsrooms, or those working on products affecting the news industry. Individuals unaffiliated with a newsroom can apply independently. The program aims to develop leadership in product management within the news industry. As a first step, applicants must complete an application form and answer questions about why they're interested in this program, provide a resume and the contact information for two references, among other requirements. Email us at npmc@newsproduct.org Stay tuned! Fill out the form to receive more information about the News Product Management Certification (NPMC). The News Product Management Certification was originally created by the News Product Alliance in partnership with Craig Newmark Graduate School of Journalism and News Catalyst with support from the Knight Lenfest Local News Transformation Fund.
