There are lots of project management software available—each varying in features and complexity, but each helps you keep your team organized and on schedule. In this guide, we’ll compare some of the best project management software that help you manage tasks, collaborate with your team, and manage resources. Key project management features to look for Consider these key features when evaluating the best software for project management: Project management : Task organization features like Kanban boards for visual project status and easy task reassignment Gantt charts : Visual project roadmaps showing tasks, timelines, assignments, milestones, and dependencies Resource management : Tools to allocate and track resource utilization, preventing overallocation and burnout Time tracking : Built-in time tracking for accurate billing and payments based on work completed Reporting and analytics : Dashboards to uncover trends, form insights, and guide decisions Collaboration tools : Features supporting seamless communication among team members Integrations : Extend functionality by linking with other software, enabling streamlined workflow Considerations when selecting the best project management tool Every tool has its strengths and weaknesses. Consider the specific needs of your team and projects when selecting a project management tool. Some key considerations include: Team size : Different tools cater to varying team sizes—if you’re a small team, you may only need straightforward task management. Larger teams might need more advanced features like resource allocation and project cost management. Industry : Select a tool that aligns with your industry’s best practices and specific requirements. For example, marketing agencies will need a project management tool to manage client retainers. Flexibility vs structure : Agile teams may prefer tools with Kanban boards and iterative planning features, and traditional projects may benefit from visual project planning using Gantt charts. Budget : Consider upfront costs, long-term value, scalability, and additional expenses when assessing pricing models. Ease of use : A tool’s ease of use directly impacts your team’s adoption rates and overall productivity. Look for an easy-to-use tool for smooth team adoption and increased productivity. Project management tool comparison: 11 popular software to consider Now, let’s run through some of the best project management tools. 1. Scoro Scoro is an all-in-one work management system build for agencies and consultancies. It combines project and work management with time tracking, invoicing, and financial reporting. It offers a centralized platform for consultancy and agency firms. You can use the “Gantt” tab for each project to plan out tasks and milestones, track project progress, and identify timeline discrepancies. If certain tasks run over time, you can easily adjust deadlines and replan on the go to respond to changes and keep the project on track. Equally powerful, Scoro’s “ Budget ” tab gives you insights into a project’s time and monetary data. For example, the “Burn-up” chart shows your project’s time budget consumption over time. Helping you monitor the rate at which your team utilizes the allocated hours for the project. The chart is always visible in the “Budget” section and shows data as soon as you have set a start and an end date for the project or planned some tasks. For a deeper dive into project financial data, the “Quoted vs Actual” table within the same section offers granular insights into real-time project profitability. It helps you to track: how many hours worth of budget you still have left whether completed work has been invoiced and payments received how much you’ve already spent and whether each service is progressing within budget how much profit the project has generated, i.e. whether you got the expected margin for each service or should you adjust your price or time estimates next time All this project-level time and financial data can help you better understand estimated versus actuals in real-time. Helping you fight scope creep and reallocate resources smartly to stay within the budget. What you’ll love The portfolio management feature helps you monitor and manage multiple projects simultaneously. The “Project list” view gives you an instant snapshot of progress, income, labor costs, external costs, project profit, and status at a glance. You can filter and group the list in various ways to slice it and dice data whichever way you want to (e.g. by status, clients, project managers, dates, tags, etc). You can also use the “Project timeline” tab to gather all your future and in-progress projects into one visualized graph to give you the ability to zoom out and see the bigger picture. All your projects automatically appear on the “Project timeline.” The left-hand side of the table displays all selected projects along with their start dates, end dates, and deadlines. Core features of Scoro you’ll like Retainer agreements for ongoing collaborations with clients by setting up long-term agreements Project quote builder to create accurate project cost estimates based on phases and tasks Team labor rates for precise project budgeting and profitability analysis Project expense management to help you keep costs under control Resource tools to help you accurately forecast and balance workloads Time tracking and timesheet options for keeping an eye on where your team time is going Sales CRM dashboard to keep track of client proposals 50+ report templates to analyze various aspects of project performance, including productivity, utilization, revenue, and profitability Pricing Scoro has four plans: Core : $19.90 per user per month Growth : $32.90 per user per month Performance : $49.90 per user per month Enterprise : Contact sales for pricing You can also try Scoro free for 14 days. Everything about your business, one click away Try for free 2. ClickUp ClickUp is an all-in-one project management and collaboration platform that brings teams closer together with connected workflows, docs, and real-time dashboards. The platform provides tailored views for cross-functional projects to allow your team to visualize their work in various ways, including Gantt charts, timelines, lists, boards, and calendars. Like Scoro, the “Gantt” chart view can help you easily map out project roadmaps with interactive timelines. Here, you can manage dependencies, get progress percentages, make bulk edits, and reschedule groups of tasks. For example, let’s say you’re managing a software development project using a Gantt chart. The project involves multiple phases, such as design, development, testing, and deployment. Each phase consists of several tasks assigned to different team members. You realize that the design phase is taking longer than expected, and you need to adjust the start dates and durations of the associated tasks in bulk. You can do this without leaving the “Gantt” chart view by: Hovering over the tasks you’d like to edit Clicking the task selector on the left side Use the “Multitask Toolbar” to make your edits You can perform a number of actions on selected tasks, such as setting watchers, assignees, status, tags, start and due dates, priority, task types, milestones, dependencies, and custom fields. ClickUp also makes project management easier with customizable dashboards and views to track project progress and keep an eye on your team’s productivity in real-time. You can build fully customizable dashboards to gain high-level overviews and deeper insights into your projects. You can choose from over 50 widgets to create the perfect dashboard for your needs. For example, use project dashboards to: Create a dashboard to provide a high-level overview of a project’s progress. Include widgets like a timeline displaying key milestones, a bar graph showing the percentage of tasks completed in each project phase, and a list of upcoming deadlines. Create a dashboard to visualize how resources (e.g., team members, equipment, budget) are being allocated across projects. A table widget displays project names, assigned resources, and allocation percentages. Build a dashboard to track progress against key goals and objectives. Use widgets like a goal progress bar showing each goal’s completion percentage and a line graph visualizing goal progress over time. What you’ll love ClickUp’s advanced automation capabilities streamline workflows by setting custom actions and triggers. Access the “Automations” menu within a “Space,” “Folder,” or “List,” selecting from pre-set templates or creating custom workflows to meet the unique demands of your project. Choose from 100+ pre-built automations to create new tasks and implement clear SOPs across your team quickly. Customize these automations based on your needs; your team can concentrate on what matters most. For example: Escalate the priority level of a task if it remains incomplete past a certain deadline Send automatic notifications to stakeholders when a task status changes Assign team members to new tasks based on their roles Core features of ClickUp you’ll like Tasks to manage and organize project tasks and backlogs Docs to collaborate on project documentation and notes Whiteboards to brainstorm and visualize ideas with the team Permissions to control access and visibility for different team members Automations to streamline workflows and reduce manual work Custom views to create personalized views of project data, such as Lists, Boards, and Gantt charts Forms to capture project requests, feedback, and surveys using customizable forms Dashboards to get a high-level overview of project progress and key metrics Pricing ClickUp has four plans: Free Unlimited : $7 per user per month Business : $12 per user per month Enterprise : customized enterprise pricing 3. Monday Monday is a comprehensive project management tool with features like goals, resource management, Gantt charts, and reports to help teams plan, execute, monitor, and evaluate their projects. Monday also utilizes Gantt charts to help you visualize project tasks, milestones, and dependencies within a set timeline. The “Gantt” view provides an at-a-glance understanding of your project’s status and details and makes it easier to identify potential bottlenecks and overlaps in the schedule. The “Dependencies” feature visualizes dependencies between your items with arrow lines. Identify tasks that are behind schedule and are preventing the project from being completed on time. The arrows highlight the connections between tasks, but you can easily remove them with the click of the “Show Dependencies” option in the “View Settings” section in “Settings.” For example, use “Dependencies” to immediately see how a delay in a new website project’s design phase could push back the coding phase’s start. Use this info to reallocate resources or adjust timelines to mitigate the impact on the project completion date. Minimize project risk further with the “Critical Path” overlay and identify all the tasks your team needs to complete to finish a project on time. To add the critical path, click on the cogwheel in the upper right corner of your Gantt. Scroll down to “Critical Path” and select “ Show critical path. “ What you’ll love Monday integrates with over 200 apps. Integrations with tools like Slack, Gmail, GitLab, Excel, DocuSign, and Google Drive make it easy to access everything in one place. To add an integration, open “ Monday Marketplace ” and select the tool you want to connect. For example, integrate your board with: Slack to automatically post updates in a team channel when a task’s status changes. Keep your team informed and engaged without needing to leave their communication platform. Miro to streamline brainstorming and planning processes. Directly embed interactive Miro boards within tasks or projects . Crunchbase to enrich your business and market research. Pull detailed company information, funding rounds, and key people directly into your Monday.com board. Core features of Monday you’ll like Customizable workflows to plan, execute, and track all kinds of work, from simple tasks to complex projects Multiple views, including Kanban boards, Gantt charts, calendars, timelines and more, to visualize work in different ways Dashboards to get high-level overviews, track progress, and gain insights across projects, teams, and departments Integrations with popular tools and apps to connect work across the organization Collaboration features like discussions, mentions, file sharing, and real-time messaging to enable teamwork Automations to streamline repetitive tasks, reduce manual work, and enforce processes Resource management to allocate resources, balance workloads, track utilization, and prevent burnout Project budgeting to create project budgets, track expenses, and monitor profitability Custom fields and forms to capture project information, requests, and data in a structured way Mobile apps to access work and update status from anywhere Pricing Monday has five plans: Free Basic : $9 per user per month Standard : $12 per user per month Pro : $19 per user per month Enterprise : customized enterprise pricing 4. Teamhood Teamhood is a visual project management tool with a focus on teams that handle multiple complex, large-scale projects – from engineers and architects to IT specialists and sensitive defense operations. It is one of a few companies that combines Kanban boards, Gantt charts, timelines, overview and individual views in one workspace. The best part? Your team can work on any view they want – progress automatically adjusts to other views. You can use Gantt view to plan timelines, milestones, and dependencies for each project. Teamhood allows you to drag and drop tasks to adjust deadlines and see how changes automatically update across dependent items. This makes it easy to keep multiple project schedules aligned and up to date. Additionally, there’s the ability to set and track project milestones. Each project in Teamhood has its own Kanban board . It’s best for daily task management and tracking progress, because you monitor individual work and collaborate on tasks. Each board allows you to customize it to a great extent. Teamhood’s Kanban board has: Rows: “Execution”, “Closing” Statuses (Columns): “Input”, “Work In Progress”, “Output” Sub-statuses: under “Work In Progress” → “To do”, “Doing”, “Done” Work in Progress Limits: max 3 tasks per row in “In Progress” Additionally, you can change the appearance of your board with multiple colors, add tags, notes, images, and best of all – add an unlimited number of subtasks (in Teamhood they are called child items). Not to mention, Teamhood has great reporting tools that let you analyze progress across multiple projects. You get reports on time spent across projects and tasks, project or individual profitability, and insights into team capacity and workload. Besides, Teamhood’s agility metrics report that gives you: Lead Time: Time to complete items at the 95th percentile, tracked monthly. Cycle Time: Current age of items in progress at 70th, 80th, and 95th percentiles. Items Completed on Time: Number of tasks finished on schedule each month. New vs Completed Items: Comparison of newly created and completed tasks. Total Progress: Overall progress by items, estimated hours, and budget. Actionable Items: Tasks to prioritize for improving key metrics. What you’ll love One of the standout Teamhood features for managing multiple projects is the Portfolio overview. The view allows you to easily manage multiple projects in the same workspace. In essence, you get an overview of all ongoing projects – their progress, deadlines, budget, and status in one place. From here, you can easily work on individual projects. The metrics are generated automatically from your project’s data, and it’s customizable – you can set up any fields like start, finish, budget, progress or assign a color to each project to indicate its overall status. Core features of Teamhood you’ll like: Project Templates: Leverage proven project structures to start work faster. Time & Cost Tracking: Record time and expenses to see project revenue, resource usage, and overall profitability. Cross-Project Dependencies: Manage shared resources and coordinate allocations across multiple projects. Cross-Functional Task Delegation: Assign tasks to teams and keep progress and costs synchronized with the main project. Multi-Location Task Syncing: Keep tasks aligned across different projects, teams, and views. Workload Management: Monitor resources to balance workloads and avoid over-allocation. Automations: Make your workflows better by automating repetitive tasks and processes on your boards. Teamhood AI: Get insights, intelligent reports, and actionable recommendations. Pricing Teamhood offers four pricing plans: Free: $0 per user /month Professional: $9.50 per user/month (billed annually) Ultimate: $19 per user/month (billed annually) Enterprise: Custom 5. Workamajig Workamajig is an all-in-one agency management system that includes a robust project management suite with all the tools to plan, execute, monitor, and report on project success. Built specifically for agencies, marketing teams, and in-house creative departments, Workamajig centralizes project tracking, resource management, time tracking, and financial oversight in a single platform. The platform includes: Customizable templates that let you predefine and standardize workflows for recurring project types. Whether you’re managing a website redesign, branding campaign, or video production project, you can build templates with preset tasks, dependencies, and timelines that kick off new work in minutes rather than hours. Powerful task management system that captures all the details project managers need. Each task includes start and due dates, time allotments, subtasks, dependencies, and staff assignments. You can link tasks together to create dependencies — ensuring your designers can’t start mockups until copywriting is approved, or that development doesn’t begin before design sign-off. This dependency mapping helps prevent bottlenecks and keeps work flowing in the correct sequence. Gantt charts that provide a visual timeline of your entire project schedule. The Gantt chart is highly customizable — you can color-code projects and phases to gauge progress at a glance. Hovering over any task bar reveals details like start and completion dates and percent complete. This visual representation makes it easy to spot the critical path, identify overlapping work, and understand how delays in one area might impact tasks later. The project monitoring dashboard serves as mission control for all ongoing work. It provides a comprehensive view of all active projects, with Gantt charts on the right and detailed health monitors on the left. The project status breakdowns include Financial Status, Project Timeline Status, Allocated Hours, Actual Hours, and % Complete. What makes Workamajig particularly helpful for project tracking is its visual status monitors — the dashboard displays color-coded icons to instantly communicate project status and make it immediately clear which projects need attention: Green means projects are on track Yellow means projects show signs of potential timeline or budget overruns Red signals projects that have already exceeded planned costs or due dates What you’ll love Workamajig’s proactive risk alerts act as a second set of eyes on your projects, automatically monitoring project health and notifying managers before issues snowball into real problems. The system continuously tracks actual hours and expenses against project plans in real-time. When projects show warning signs — like costs approaching budgets or tasks falling behind their due dates — Workamajig sends notifications about which projects require attention and where to begin troubleshooting. This early warning system gives project managers opportunities to course-correct while there’s still time to get back on track. Managers receive alerts at the very moment projects shift from green (on track) to yellow (at risk), enabling them to reallocate resources, adjust timelines, or have conversations with clients before problems escalate. For agencies juggling multiple client projects, these automated alerts are invaluable. It’s easy for delays or budget overruns to go unnoticed when your attention is divided across dozens of active projects. Workamajig’s health monitoring ensures nothing slips through the cracks — so you can intervene proactively (rather than putting out fires later). Core features of Workamajig you’ll like Project templates with preset tasks, dependencies, workflows, milestones, timelines, and resource requirements Customizable Gantt charts to visualize project progress at a glance Task management that includes start and due dates, time allotments, subtasks, dependencies, and staff assignments per project activity Real-time project monitoring dashboard (including budget and timeline tracking) with visual status indicators and proactive risk alerts Resource management tools to assign staff to project activities and optimize utilization Time tracking directly on task cards — users can manually input hours, use timers, or add time from calendar events Collaboration tools including file sharing, commenting, internal proofing, and version history (Free) client portals that simplify communications, feedback discussions, approval workflows, and new project requests Automated invoicing that pulls all project costs, based on billing method (time & materials, fixed fee, media, retainer) Full GL accounting software to manage all the agency finances with real time project updates to manage budgets. Financial reporting to analyze profitability at various levels (project, campaign, client) Pricing Workamajig offers tailored packages for both agencies and in-house teams. Pricing is per user seat: Teams of 10+ pay $49/user/month Teams of 25+ pay $47/user/month Teams of 50+ pay $45/user/month Workamajig also offers custom enterprise packages to support teams of 100 to 10,000+. Workamajig packages include: Complete access to the Workamajig platform and all features Guided onboarding and training Ongoing support through your dedicated account manager 6. Basecamp Basecamp is a project management tool designed for small teams to collaborate and manage work. It provides tools to organize projects, track tasks, communicate, share files, schedule events, and get visibility into what everyone is working on in one centralized hub. At a high level, Basecamp’s “Home” screen provides a centralized hub to view your top projects and priority cards across teams. You can pin your favorite pages and see your schedule and your assigned tasks. As you move to specifics, Basecamp’s project-level focus centralizes all critical components—message boards, to-do lists, files, schedules, and direct messaging—into clearly defined blocks to streamline navigation and project oversight. For a more interactive and visual approach to managing specific types of work, you can use Basecamp’s “Card Table.” The “Card Table” tool streamlines tracking reactive work and ad hoc requests through a Kanban-style interface. The “Card Table” works well for managing requests and issues directed at a specific team. It’s intended to track reactive work like resolving software bugs or handling design requests. But you can use it to organize any workflow that involves moving items through stages visually. The “Card Table” starts with four columns: “Triage,” “Figuring it Out,” “In Progress,” and “Done.” To add an item to track, click “ + Add a card, ” which will place it in the “Triage” column by default. Give the card a title, assignee, due date, and description. The card can then be dragged through columns like “In Progress” and “Done” to represent status changes. Another way to view ongoing projects is the “Lineup” view. It’s a timeline view showing what your team recently completed, what’s active now, and what’s coming up next across all projects. “Lineup” provides at-a-glance visibility into how long each project runs and where it falls on the calendar. The vertical green line marks today, no matter if you’re looking at a project or the “Lineup” page. What you’ll love The “Hill Chart” provides a high-level visualization of project progress by representing work as “dots” plotted on a hill-shaped graph. The “uphill phase” – figuring things out The “downhill phase” – making solutions Click the name of a to-do list and then choose “ Track this on the Hill Chart ” from the options menu. Rather than just show tasks finished, drag chart dots to highlight obstacles or wins. Team leaders stay in the loop to help teams, not penalize them later for unexpected roadblocks. The vertical position of each dot indicates the status of that work: “Uphill” phase – still figuring things out, unknowns remain “Over the hill” – the plan is clear, only execution remains “Downhill” – actively working through execution Drag dots to the appropriate place on the “Hill” to represent progress. “Hill Charts” spotlight what’s blocking work, not just what’s done. A task list might show 90% finished while the hard stuff sits untouched. Charts surface this. Look back through previous chart updates to guide decisions, not excuses like “It looked on track last week.” Hill Charts cultivate trust by shining light on the messy innards of getting stuff done. Core features of Basecamp you’ll like Home dashboard to see all your projects, assignments, and schedules in one place Messages board for centralized discussions and communication To-Dos to create, assign, and track tasks Docs & Files to store, share, and discuss documents Real-time Chat for quick conversations within projects Schedule calendar to view dated tasks, milestones, and events Card Table as a kanban-style board to visually track work Automatic Check-Ins to regularly collect feedback from your team Hill Charts to provide visual high-level project progress at a glance Reporting to gain insights across multiple projects 7. Notion Notion is a powerful, all-in-one workspace that offers various views and tools for project managers to track milestones and collaborate. Its value lies in its flexibility to cater to different team preferences and project needs. In Notion, you can organize projects using “Databases.” Databases contain collections of pages with the same properties, like status, assignee, due date, etc. This allows you to view and track project details all in one place. For example, you can create a database to manage tasks across different projects. Add properties like status, assignee, priority, sprint, and view it as a table. This provides an organized project task tracker with customizable columns. You can then click a task to view and manage details like sub-tasks, comments, and other insights directly within the task page. You can also visualize tasks on a timeline by creating a “Timeline” view for the project. The “Timeline” offers a 360-degree view of how projects and tasks fit together, allowing teams to visualize dependencies and plan their work. To add a timeline, click “ + ” and select “Timeline” from the dropdown menu. Notion also lets you customize views with powerful filters and sorts. For example, click “ Add filter ” then select “ Priority ” and “ Medium ” to only show medium priority tasks. With the ability to tune each view’s focus based on everything and anything, Notion ensures laser-sharp visibility into the right information at the right time. What you’ll love Notion provides a massive library of project templates for various use cases, from roadmaps and calendars to issue tracking, planning, and ticketing. Some examples of popular project management templates in Notion include: Projects & tasks: A template to organize tasks, status, priorities, due dates, and more Issue tracker: For tracking bugs, feature requests, and other issues Kanban board: A visual board to map out project workflow Product roadmap: For planning product features and milestone releases Gantt chart: To visualize task schedules and timelines Content calendar: For scheduling and managing social media and blog posts Project management: An all-in-one template for task planning, tracking, and collaboration Core features of Notion you’ll like Configurable views to see projects as tables, boards, timelines, calendars, etc. Databases to track tasks, deadlines, progress bars, dependencies, and assignees AI writing assistance to generate drafts and improve project docs Automations for workflows like adding user stories and status updates Sprint templates for agile processes to groom backlogs and track bugs Integrations with tools like Figma, Slack, GitHub, and Jira Linked tasks so details are accessible directly within project plans Team collaboration features for task assignments, dependencies, and communications Wikis and docs to centralize knowledge and information Pricing Notion has four plans: Free Plus : $8 per user per month Business : $15 per user per month Enterprise : customized enterprise pricing 8. Airtable Airtable is a cloud-based database and spreadsheet software that enables users to create customizable data tables that connect and display in an interface similar to spreadsheets. The real value is Airtable’s ability to customize and build apps directly within the platform. Choose from over 80 apps or even create your own to tailor workflows and data analysis. For example, Airtable has a “Project Management” database filled with useful apps to help you better manage your projects. Once you install the database, you’ll get access to the following apps within it: My tasks: Customizable board to track personal to-do items, deadlines, and progress Projects & tasks: Central hub to coordinate project details, assign tasks, set dependencies, and track status. Integrates with Scheduling and Timelines Schedule: Gantt chart timeline view to visualize task schedules and identify dependencies. Ensures on-time delivery Kanban: Flexible board to organize tasks and work-in-progress by status. Streamlines team coordination Roadmap: High-level planning template to map out objectives, milestones, and launches Insights: At-a-glance visualization of project statistics like completion rates, traffic light status, and task allocation Team: Overview of team members, roles, and responsibilities across projects. Enables efficient delegation The “Roadmap” app offers a visualized schedule overview of projects, displaying colored bars stretching from start dates to end dates. To track progress easily, you can see completion percentages for each item (e.g. 100%, 50%, etc.)—bars will even show as green when fully complete. Click on one of the bars projects in the “Roadmap” to view project details like duration, to-do, in-progress, and completed tasks. Here, leave comments providing extra context, changes in scope, or feedback to those assigned to specific tasks within the project. Airtable’s “Insights” dashboard within “Management” integrates analytical data visualizations for broader oversight to supplement this. The “Status Breakdown” pie chart breaks down all tasks across to-do, in progress, and done – giving a simple graphical representation of overall progress. The “Number of Tasks per Assignee” chart shows the volume of work assigned to each team member. This helps identify over or under-utilized resources. The “Utilization Breakdown” shows the number of hours each person works and where they spend their time. At a higher level, indicator metrics quantify the percentage completed and overdue for all tasks. You can filter any report by assignee, project, or date range. The “Status Breakdown” pie chart breaks down all tasks across to-do, in progress, and done – giving a simple graphical representation of overall progress. What you’ll love Anyone can create and share custom interfaces without coding with “Interface Designer.” Design tailored interfaces that present project data in the most intuitive and actionable format for your teams—creating dashboards highlighting key project milestones, designing forms for seamless data entry, or setting up personalized views focusing on specific project aspects. To create an interface, select the “Interfaces” button at the top of an existing base and “Create a new” to start building your new interface. You can make a Kanban Board to track tasks and progress on a project visually. This allows you to map and categorize work into columns like “To-Do”, “In Progress,” and “Completed” for an at-a-glance status view. Using the “Timeline” interface is great for mapping out the different phases and milestones of a project on a visual timeline. You can see how tasks fit together and ensure you hit key deadlines. With a “Dashboard” interface, you can get a birds-eye look at overall project health. Add charts for task progress metrics and key data visualizations to monitor things like utilization, workload, and budget. Core features of Airtable you’ll like Flexible databases to track projects, tasks, issues, resources, etc. Kanban boards to visualize workflows and task status Calendar views to schedule milestones and timelines Interactive interfaces to create custom views of data Reporting dashboards to analyze progress, utilization, and metrics Automatic notifications on task changes or overdue items Project templates with preset frameworks to get started quickly Collaboration tools like task assignments, comments, and activity logs Pricing Airtable has three plans: Free Team : $20 per user per month (billed annually) Business: $45 per user per month (billed annually) Enterprise Scale : customized enterprise pricing 9. Jira The project management tool Jira, developed by Atlassian, is rooted in software development and agile project management. Jira lets you easily plan, track, and release software development projects. For example, build workflows during the project planning phases with statuses like “To Do,” “In Progress,” and “Done” that match your team’s planning methodologies. Once the project is up and running, get a snapshot of your team’s progress through the “Timeline” view. It’s a Gantt chart view to visualize and plan the timing and sequence of individual issues. Schedule bars indicate when each issue in your project will start and end. Use the view to: Adjust an issue’s start and due date or change the duration by dragging the handles of each bar Reschedule an issue by dragging the schedule bar Link issues in the timeline contingent on others being completed first. View which issues may be blocked due to a certain issue Change how much time you’re viewing with the button in the bottom right: Weeks, Months, or Quarters Then, use the “Releases” tab to check which projects your team has released or is close to releasing. To show releases on your timeline, click “View” settings on the top right corner of your timeline and check the box next to “Releases.” Lastly, Jira’s advanced reporting gives you a holistic view of how your team is performing. For example, for scrum teams, Jira offers sprint reports, burndown charts, release burndowns, and velocity charts to improve planning and retrospectives. For Kanban teams, cumulative flow diagrams and control charts provide insights into workflow optimization. And issue analysis and forecasting reports help with capacity planning, workload management, and identifying trends. What you’ll love Jira features a powerful search functionality using “Jira Query Language.” The three flavors of search in Jira software — quick, basic, and advanced — can help you find important information about your projects. For example, use JQL to find all high-priority bugs in a project the system hasn’t yet assigned and reported in the last two weeks. Targeted action lets you deal with critical issues quickly. Core features of Jira you’ll like Scrum and Kanban boards to visualize and track work in sprints or continuous flows Backlogs to organize issues and plan sprints Roadmaps to map out initiatives on visual timelines and see dependencies Reports like burndown charts, velocity, and control charts to monitor progress Agile workflows that are customizable for any team’s processes Versions for planning and tracking software releases Issue types to categorize different types of work like bugs, stories, tasks Search and filters to find relevant issues and build dashboards quickly Integrations with 1,000+ other apps, including GitHub, Jenkins, Slack Automation to simplify repetitive tasks like subtasks, transitions, assignments Custom fields to capture additional metadata like priorities, components, environments Permissions to control access and edit rights across projects Pricing Jira has four plans: Free: for 10 users or less Standard : $850 per year (user tier 1 to 10) Premium : $1,600 per year (user tier 1 to 10) Enterprise : customized enterprise pricing 10. Adobe Workfront Adobe Workfront is an enterprise work management platform built for creative teams. At a high level, “Work Charts” surfaces key statistics through its dashboard to help spot bottlenecks across portfolio health, on-time delivery, duration, and workload. To access the analytics dashboard, click the “Main Menu” icon and select “Analytics.” Here’s what it looks like: KPIs like projects completed, projects completed on time, average project durations, and average tasks per project help you spot bottlenecks across portfolio health, on-time delivery, duration, and workload. Teams can also visualize project timelines and completion risk through Workfront’s “Flight Plan” chart. This timeline view plots out planned vs actual start and end dates to reveal delays plus projects that are on target (green), at-risk (orange), or in trouble (red). To view the “Flight Plan” chart, filter to relevant projects, scroll to the “Flight Plan” chart and hover over lines to see dates. As you move below, the “Project” activity chart allows you to understand and compare project activities—users logged in, task status changes, and tasks completed—against other projects in Workfront. Project activities are displayed in different colors to summarize the activities over a period of time. Seeing this information helps you determine: The activity on a specific project. The activity of one project compared to other projects. Which users are working on a project, and at what frequency Lastly, at a more granular level, Workfront offers a “Tree Map” chart for understanding time breakdowns across specific initiatives. The boxes represent projects, with size proportional to the effort spent. What you’ll love The “Portfolio Optimizer” helps you to prioritize projects based on net value, alignment, cost, risk, and ROI. You can evaluate projects against these dimensions: Net Value: Look at the total net value (planned benefits minus costs) calculated for each project and the entire portfolio. This allows you to prioritize projects that deliver the highest net value to your organization. Alignment: Review the alignment score given to each project based on how well it supports your company’s strategic objectives. This score is determined using the scorecard in the project’s business case. Pay attention to the average portfolio alignment score shown as well. Prioritize projects that are highly aligned with your strategy. Cost: Examine the total cost, budget, and remaining budget provided for your portfolio. Drill down to see each project’s individual costs, too. This cost data enables you to prioritize lower-cost projects when needed to manage budget constraints. Risk: Assess the total potential risk cost of your portfolio and the risk costs of individual projects. Use the Risk to Net Value indicator to weigh potential risks against the expected net value. Focus on prioritizing lower-risk projects to minimize uncertainty. ROI: Analyze the portfolio ROI calculated from the total planned benefits and budgeted costs of your projects. Maximize value by prioritizing the projects with the highest ROI. By digging into these dimensions using the data surfaced in the “Portfolio Optimizer”, you’ll have the data to make better financial decisions for your business. Core features of Adone Workfront you’ll like Work automation to connect systems, sync data, and automate workflows across applications Budget & expense management for real-time visibility into budgeted, forecasted, and actual spend Workflow management to streamline end-to-end processes from strategy to delivery Proofing & approvals for collaborative document reviews and approvals in a single tool Reporting & dashboards for real-time insights and automated reporting to stakeholders Enterprise security with industry-recognized standards to protect critical business data Integrations with Adobe Creative Cloud, Experience Cloud, Anaplan, and other key apps Resource management to optimize team capacity and balance workloads across projects Templates to standardize best practices and eliminate manual processes Pricing Workfront has three plans with custom pricing: Select Prime Ultimate Detailed pricing is available upon request 11. Smartsheet Smartsheet’s spreadsheet-like interface combines the familiarity of traditional spreadsheets with powerful project management features. The sheet is the foundation of your work—view a sheet as a “Grid,” “Gantt chart,” “Calendar,” or “Card.” Use the Views buttons in the top toolbar to switch between these views. For example, the interactive Gantt chart outlines all tasks, owners, start/end dates, and dependencies within a project. You can easily drag and drop to re-order tasks or adjust timelines. The Gantt auto-adjusts around dependencies to plan projects, establish critical paths, and confidently meet deadlines. The Gantt chart is handy when assigning resources to tasks and seeing how proposed schedule changes may impact team members. The resource utilization functionality shows over- and under-allocation at a glance. All project info rolls up into Smartsheet’s customizable dashboards that display high-level metrics. For example, the “Project & Resource Overview” dashboard shows key data like budget vs actual hours, completion status, and resource allocation across projects. The dashboard allows you to compare planned timelines and budgets against actuals to pinpoint areas for intervention or adjustment. You can also add other widgets to showcase sheets, reports, charts, forms, and content from other places like Google Docs, Tableau, Power BI, and YouTube. The interactive views and dashboard roll-ups give managers clear visibility into resource utilization, project status, and progress toward goals. What you’ll love Cross-sheet formulas in Smartsheet allow you to track, analyze, and report on data across multiple sheets. Use functions like VLOOKUP, SUMIF, and COUNTIF to consolidate critical project metrics from various sources into a central dashboard and enable real-time visibility into project status, resource allocation, and performance metrics. Here are some examples of useful cross-sheet formulas: Calculating sales pipeline values from multiple regional sales sheets Tracking percent completion across multiple projects for an executive portfolio dashboard Consolidating project health statuses into a single dashboard Summing hours worked across multiple projects to see the total work Calculating resource utilization rates and overallocation risks Core features of Smartsheet you’ll like Resource management to allocate resources effectively across projects with heatmaps and project/cross-project views Budget management to create and track project budgets by time, currency or expense and monitor cost thresholds Analytics & Reporting with real-time dashboards, consolidated data, and shareable reports for the right insights at the right time Workflow Automation to quickly implement powerful automated workflows that eliminate repetitive manual tasks Integrations with popular apps like Slack, Google Workspace, Jira, and Microsoft Teams to bring all information into Smartsheet Templates for common project types like agile projects with Gantt, project management office, budgets, tracking, and more Pricing Smartsheet has three plans with custom pricing: Free Pro : $7 per user per month Business : $25 per user per month Enterprise : customized enterprise pricing Simplify project management with Scoro Each of these tools simplifies project management in a unique way, and Scoro is no exception. It’s the best project management tool for agencies and consultancies that need an all-in-one solution to manage their projects, teams, and tasks. A 360-degree view of all your projects—that’s Scoro. Sign up for a free trial and discover how Scoro can streamline your project management processes.
