Online Course Development & Marketing Turn your knowledge into profit with an engaging and high-converting online course and sales funnel turn your assets and expertise into profit With the E-Learning market growing day by day and estimated to be worth around $300 Billion (Yep…with a B) by 2025, there’s never been a better time to create your own online course, program or community. Whether you’re looking to empower your partners and employees, sell to your audience, or simply to create community, building a membership platform can add incredible value to your business and customers. create additional revenue streams We’ve worked with clients in a huge range of sectors and industries to create everything from partner programs, to coaching programs, to online courses and communities. We can also guide you on how to best incorporate both high-ticket and low-ticket offers for different segments of your audience. TURN YOUR assets AND expertise INTO PROFIT With the E-Learning market estimated to be worth around $300 Billion (Yep…with a B) by 2025, there’s never been a better time to create your own online course, program or community. Whether you’re looking to empower your partners and employees, sell to your audience, or simply to create community, building a membership platform can add incredible value to your business and customers. create additional revenue streams We’ve worked with clients in a huge range of sectors and industries to create everything from partner programs, to coaching programs, to online courses and communities. We can also guide you on how to best incorporate both high-ticket and low-ticket offers for different segments of your audience. We’re a Thinkific Agency Partner (But we also work with other course platforms) As a Thinkific Agency partner, we specialise in the Thinkific course creation platform to help you design, build, market and sell your own online course. Using Thinkific to host your online course means you’ll have the freedom and flexibility to run your course business however you choose. You also have several unique benefits such as UNLIMITED video bandwidth meaning no hidden charges. You also have full control over site design, content, course pricing, student information, and more. Oh, and the best part, you’ll get paid instantly and will still own 100% of your data. 45,000+ Course created on the platform 35 Million + Courses taken by students on the platform $150M+ Earned on the platform annually *Don’t want to use Thinkific? Or want to integrate your online course into an existing or new website? No worries, our development team will advise on a range of other suitable LMS (Learning Management System) platforms such as Kajabi, Teachable, Learnworlds or even plugins like Learndash which can integrate directly into a WordPress website. 3 simple steps to getting your new course online Step 1: Planning & Uploading Content/Modules This is where we’ll put together the plan and structure of your course. This includes choosing which LMS (Learning Management System) to build the course on. We’ll then look at organising the modules and choosing the way in which they’ll be delivered. For example, you may want to unlock certain modules based on time or even after a certain amount of progression through the course. We can also integrate this with your email autoresponder or CRM for the automatic email follow up sequences based on the action your members take! Step 2: Building & Designing Your Course At this stage, we’ll begin with our initial wireframes and design mock-ups. Once everyone is happy with the look and feel, we’ll push forward into development. This will involve building and assembling the course itself, making sure everything is correctly linked and the content is uploaded and displaying correctly across both desktop and mobile devices. Step 3: Marketing & Sales Funnel Setup Now that your course is fully functional and looking sexy it’s time to make sure you can start selling it! This will involve integrating into your payment gateways (like Stripe or PayPal) so you can easily and effortlessly take payments. We’ll also be working on the overall GTM strategy here. This could include offering a free module to hook people in initially and then charging either an upfront fee or an on-going monthly membership. Once we have the hook and bait, it’s time to identify the right channels to market. We’ll work with you on identifying the best possible platforms for marketing your course and making sure you’re feeling confident and ready to start selling! 3 simple steps to getting your new course online Step 1: Planning & Uploading Content/Modules This is where we’ll put together the plan and structure of your course. This includes choosing which LMS (Learning Management System) to build the course on. We’ll then look at organising the modules and choosing the way in which they’ll be delivered. For example, you may want to unlock certain modules based on time or even after a certain amount of progression through the course. We can also integrate this with your email autoresponder or CRM for the automatic email follow up sequences based on the action your members take! Step 2: Building & Designing Your Course At this stage, we’ll begin with our initial wireframes and design mock-ups. Once everyone is happy with the look and feel, we’ll push forward into development. This will involve building and assembling the course itself, making sure everything is correctly linked and the content is uploaded and displaying correctly across both desktop and mobile devices. Step 3: Marketing & Sales Funnel Setup Now that your course is fully functional and looking sexy it’s time to make sure you can start selling it! This will involve integrating into your payment gateways (like Stripe or PayPal) so you can easily and effortlessly take payments. We’ll also be working on the overall GTM strategy here. This could include offering a free module to hook people in initially and then charging either an upfront fee or an on-going monthly membership. Once we have the hook and bait, it’s time to identify the right channels to market. We’ll work with you on identifying the best possible platforms for marketing your course and making sure you’re feeling confident and ready to start selling! How to start marketing & selling an online course 📈 If you’re still on the fence about creating your online course or you’re thinking about doing it yourself. Check out our walkthrough video on how to grow an online course business profitably Online Course Success Stories Achieved A 8.92 ROAS For A New Online Course Achieved A 8.92 ROAS For A New Online Course Start Growing & Scaling Your Online Course Today If you’re looking for a reliable online course marketing agency, book a call with us here so we can create a plan and strategy for your new online course today!
