Let’s build a great website together. We can bring your web design vision and ideas to life through innovative custom design for your business. We work on hundreds of websites a year, and bring unique insight from our deep experience. Get Free Project Discovery Worth $2,500 400+ Websites Built 51k+ Hours of Coding 200+ 5 Star Reviews 14+ Years of Excellence What Kind of Website Do You Need? We have over 200 team members specializing in diverse platforms, coding languages, frameworks, and industries. Whether you need a website for an ecommerce business, local lead generation, a custom application, or informational and entertainment purposes, we can help. R EAD ABOUT HOW COALITION’S ECOMMERCE SITE MADE A BIG IMPACT FOR PINK LILY This fashion boutique came to Coalition because although they had a social media following, they were not seeing the revenue results they were looking for. We took over full online marketing including web development, Search Engine Optimization (SEO), Pay Per Click (PPC), paid social media, and email marketing. In their first year with us, this fashion retailer generated $2.5 million in revenue while spending only $100,000 on our services. WORLD-CLASS WEBSITE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT Your website design and development critically defines your online presence. Even the most basic improvements in your website can have far-reaching effects on your success in the marketplace. Businesses can no longer get by with a simple but poorly optimized website. As the web has evolved, customers have become progressively savvier and choose who to do business with based on a business’s digital presence. Coalition Technologies has succeeded and out-performed other web design companies for the past decade by providing a better service that delivers superior outcomes to our clients. With over 600 client case studies ranging from websites for dentists to websites for fashion ecommerce brands, our breadth of experience and repeated ability to drive positive outcomes is unrivaled in the web design industry. Our professional Digital Strategists first work with you to develop a scope of work that reflects best practices for your industry and also address your specific business needs. Our project managers, designers, developers, and QA team take that website scope and efficiently execute on it, all while educating you, involving you, and keeping you up to date on our progress. Hundreds of clients have raved about our services on Clutch, Google, Facebook, and more. Contact us today and our expert team will review your account and provide you with a strategy, timeline, and forecast that includes a competitor strategy review for free. We can get you started immediately, so call us right now at (310) 827-3890. What Is The Best CMS For You? Coalition actively reviews and evaluates the effectiveness of leading website content management systems. As your website design and development company, let us guide you to the right website platform selection. DISCOVER THE BIGCOMMERCE WEBSITE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT WE DID FOR PAYPAL When you’re a brand synonymous with ecommerce and online transacting, your choice in partners is critical. PayPal chose Coalition for its BigCommerce Enterprise store builds after an exhaustive vetting process that compared some of the ecommerce industry’s leading agencies. Our knowledge of the SaaS ecommerce market, BigCommerce, and our ability to provide extensive custom development to support the brand’s need were all winning factors. The mobile friendly, content rich ecommerce site stands out from typical ecommerce experience and captures the PayPal brand wonderfully. What Our Clients Are Saying Call us at (310) 827-3890 or Email Us Featured Projects PINK LILY See how our web development and SEM services helped Pink Lily generate $2.5 million in revenue in the first year of working with us. NATIVE UNION Learn how our website redesign helped Native Union increase revenue by 20% month over month and organic traffic by 58% in just six months. Our Work Includes 600+ Websites Built Web Design Matters Web Design impacts how users perceive your brand, and you only get one chance to make that first impression. Great web design will provide users with an intuitive, attractive experience across all platforms while informing them about your brand and increasing your conversion rate. RESPONSIVE DESIGN Mobile users account for more than half of all website traffic and that percentage keeps rising. To increase conversions and maintain your brand authority, we implement responsive web designs that will adjust to any screen size or platform for the best user experience. INTEGRATED MARKETING Successful web design includes integrated marketing that targets your optimal user base. Our ability to integrate better tracking, analytics, SEO, SEM, social, and email marketing into your website build guarantees lower bounce rates and considerably more conversions. WEB DESIGN We build responsive ecommerce, lead gen, custom, and informational websites that are attractive, intuitive, and optimized. WEB DEVELOPMENT Our web developers make your vision a reality. From front-end to back-end, we make sure every aspect of your website is executed with precision. BRANDING We start our process by learning everything we can about your brand and then we make sure that every element on your website reflects that brand to your users. ONLINE MARKETING Through targeted SEO, PPC, Email, and social media marketing, we increase brand awareness, organic traffic, and conversions in both the short- and long-term. 600+ Case Studies Driving Sales Increased traffic by nearly 200%. District Clothing, a fashion basics retailer, was having a difficult time getting the brand recognition and traffic they deserved due to a highly competitive SEO landscape. They came to Coalition in hopes of bringing more traffic to their website and generating more revenue. After designing and developing a new WordPress and Nexternal ecommerce website for them, we launched aggressive SEO and PPC campaigns that resulted in an increase in traffic to the brand’s website by nearly 200%. Their site ranked alongside major multinational brands in ideal search results, and their revenue increased in tandem with that growth. Organic revenue increased by 631% in just six months. Bare Performance, a nutritional supplement company, came to Coalition because they needed a new website that would rank at the top in search results. Once we built their website and completed SEO work, organic revenue increased by 631% in just six months. Organic sessions increased by 147%, and overall revenue increased 104% from $192,000 to $391,000. Increased revenue by 236.89% in just two months. QSpray, a spray equipment specialist, came to Coalition for a new website and targeted SEO campaign. They needed to break into the digital market and trusted Coalition with the job. After building their website, completing extensive SEO work, and launching their PPC campaign, we increased QSpray’s revenue by 263.89% in just two months. They saw impressive ROIs of 281.55%, 352.50%, and 513.74% in the following three months. In comparison to the previous year, the site is attracting 89.36% more organic users. Watch Warehouse, a discount watch dealer, came to us for a website redesign and multiple online marketing services in hopes of building a better web presence and increasing their revenue. Once we designed their new website and optimized their PPC efforts, organic revenue increased by 169.11%, organic transactions increased by 128.89%, and their Google Ads campaigns showed an ROI of 2,257% with a spend of $7,235 generating $170,562. Organic revenue grew by 820% during the first two years. Peak Pilates, a cutting-edge fitness company, needed to stand out in a competitive market so they came to Coalition. Once we completed their web design, an extensive SEO overhaul, and launched their PPC campaign, organic revenue grew by 820% during the first two years. They also experience a higher conversion rate through all search channels. ROI grew to 248% on PPC spend Krav Maga Worldwide, leaders in Krav Maga self-defense training classes, wanted to reach more users and increase class attendance. They came to Coalition for graphic design, SEO, WordPress, PPC, web design, and web development. Through our web design, SEO, and PPC campaigns, they saw an increase of 248% in organic sessions and organic new users grew by 281%. Our Web Design Process INTEGRATED MARKETING Our team of 180+ has expertise in SEO, PPC, web design and development with a 600+ successful client track record. PROVEN RESULTS Our checklists, systems, and processes lead to consistent results across our clients. EXPERT SUPPORT Our world class team is headquartered in Los Angeles and are able to resolve any issue. Coalition Technologies Reviews 4.8 ★ ★★★★ 123 REVIEWS JoelCEO JordanPresident & COO Rebecca F.Vice President of Marketing Carl C.Director of Digital Strategy Cody J.Director of Marketing - Ecommerce Dylan B.Director of Design and Development Joel Ge.Director of Marketing - Lead Generation Deepak G.SEO Manager - Lead Generation Ivona K.Human Resources Manager Kanika K.SEO Manager Kelsey B.Accounting Manager Michael O.Front End Development Manager Raj F.Back End Development Manager Aaron S.Copy Strategist Team Lead Anna A.Design Team Lead Ashok P.PPC Team Lead Brooke K.SEO Reporting Team Lead Chetan K.SEO Analyst Team Lead - Lead Generation Czarina F.Digital Strategy Assistant Team Lead Daniel T.SEO Analyst Team Lead Eric V.Front End Development Team Lead Guillermo A.Digital Producer Team Lead - Marketing (Paid) Hailey W.Digital Producer Team Lead - Design & Development Jamie R.Digital Producer Team Lead - Marketing Jason S.Digital Producer Team Lead - Email and SMS Marketing Jerica C.Marketing QA Team Lead Jimnah N.Design Team Lead - Marketing Karan D.QA and Email Development Lead Maggie C.Digital Producer Team Lead - Marketing Manoj R.SEO Analyst Team Lead Marianne G.Link Building Team Lead Marshall B.Copy Strategist Team Lead Mazen A.Laraval Team Lead Melanie D.Associate Team Lead - Accounting Mohammad A.S.Back End Developer Mohyee R.SEO Analyst Team Lead - Lead Generation Myra L.Operations Support Team Lead Nehemiah E.SEO Reporting Team Lead Nitin T.Front End Development Team Lead Pavithra R.PPC Team Lead Rafaela K.Front End Development Team Lead Saad Y.Front End Development Team Lead Sansu A.Outreach Team Lead Sarah S.Digital Producer Team Lead - Marketing Sierra L.Social Media Team Lead Tess D.N.Copy Team Lead Thys D.PDigital Producer - Marketing Team Lead Tiffany Y.Copy Strategist Team Lead Umair K.Front End Team Lead Vivek K.PPC Analyst Team Lead Waleed M.SEO Analyst Team Lead Xevran I.SEO Analyst Team Lead Abdul M.Front End Developer AdhikarSEO Analyst AdityaPPC Analyst AhsanSEO Analyst AileenOperations AlbertAssistant Reporting Analyst Alexis M.Assistant Reporting Analyst AliaAssistant Copy Strategist AlirezaLaravel Developer AmyAssociate Marketing Digital Producer Andrew L.Copy Strategist AngelBack End Developer AnkitaPPC Analyst ArsalanSEO Analyst AseelAssistant Reporting Analyst AsjadQA Analyst Avinash B.Back End Developer AvionneDigital Strategist Assistant BienDesigner BryanRecruiter CarolineDigital Producer Trainee - Marketing Charles R.Digital Strategist CharlineSr. Digital Producer - Marketing Christine C.Assistant Recruiter Deepak Y.Designer DileepBack End Developer DivyaFront End Developer DougDigital Strategist Emmanuel D. A.SEO Analyst ErnestoSEO Analyst FaizaSEO Analyst Faye L.Digital Production Assistant - Design and Development GauravSEO Analyst Gideon M.Partner Strategist GustavoMarketing Coordinator HamzaLaravel Developer Hope A.Digital Producer Trainee - Marketing Jake G.Designer Jake S.Digital Strategist Jason R.Digital Strategist Jay N.Sr. Digital Strategist JeminiAssistant Recruiter Jinae H.Sr. Digital Strategist Jithman S.Front End Developer - Trainee Josh M.Digital Strategist Joy R.Sr. Digital Strategist JuliaCopy Strategist KapilFront End Developer KarthikaLink Builder KateAssociate Digital Producer - Marketing KomalQuality Assurance Specialist LakshayaBack End Developer Laura H.Assistant Copy Strategist LaurelAssistant to the CEO LuisDigital Producer MattAssociate Digital Producer - Marketing Matthew B.Digital Producer Trainee - Marketing MubarakSEO Analyst MuhammadBack End Developer Nadine J.Operation Assistant NehaSEO Developer Paige B.Recruiter Pieter O.Digital Producer - Marketing Prayag C.SEO Analyst Pranav G.SEO Analyst RamFront End Developer Randall H.Copy Strategist RaviSEO Analyst RushikeshFront End Developer - Trainee SarveshPPC Analyst SevdhaAssociate Digital Producer - Marketing ShakeelSEO Analyst ShielaOperations Assistant Shiva P.Front End Developer - Trainee SimerAssistant to the Dev Manager SteffyDigital Strategist Assistant SudhirSEO Analyst Suryanshi T.Link Builder TalhaSEO Developer Taylor D.Recruiter Trisha F.Digital Producer Trainee - Marketing VanessaDesigner VijenderSEO Analyst What High-End Web Design Can Do for You In today’s competitive marketplace, an adequate website just won’t cut it. Online shoppers have become accustomed to responsive websites that are easy to use, appealing to the eye, and fast. A recent study showed that the average user would click off a website that took longer than 3 seconds to load. Three seconds! If your website isn’t meeting or exceeding a user’s expectations, you’re going to lose authority, trust, and especially revenue. However, a well-designed website can define your brand, engage your audience, and drive your sales beyond expectation. What Coalition Technologies Can Do for You Coalition Technologies has built an expert team of web designers and developers who are at the forefront of the industry. Through innovation and continuous learning, we are able to stay on top of an ever-changing landscape and deliver cutting-edge designs that put your website a step ahead of the competition. With over 600 successful client case studies, Coalition can prove our results. We can show you how we increase traffic, reduce bounce rates, and drive revenue. Take a look at our case studies and see how our web design services have generated hundreds of millions of dollars for our clients. We will do the same for you. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) What platforms do you work with? We design and develop BigCommerce, Shopify, and WordPress websites. We also work on websites on other platforms such as Magento, Squarespace, and the like. Will I be able to see what the site looks like first? Yes, we will create mockups and implement your feedback into the development work. Can you create a new logo for my brand? Yes! Learn more about our logo design services here. Will AI be used to generate my website? We may occasionally use AI for initial research. However, our developers hand code within the platform’s framework and our managers review their work to make sure we keep the human touch. We never implement code without thorough review and quality assurance. When will my website launch? Our timelines vary based on the complexity of the build, but many of our projects are launched in a 4-6 month timeframe. Should I also sign up for marketing services? Pairing our Web Design and Development services with our Marketing services will provide the most positive impact on your business. A new site can’t do you much good if customers can’t find it! Related Resources Work with Coalition If you want to future-proof your website and generate more revenue, contact us today. Our exceptional team of web designers and developers will review your website and provide you with an analysis, strategy, and timeline that includes a competitor strategy review for free. We can get you started immediately, so call us right now at (310) 827-3890 and start making more money.
