Argentina (Español) Australia (English) Belgique (Français) België (Nederlands) Bolivia (Español) Brasil (Português) Canada (English) Canada (Français) Chile (Español) Colombia (Español) Costa Rica (Español) Danmark (Dansk) Deutschland (Deutsch) Germany (English) Ecuador (Español) El Salvador (Español) España (Español) Espanya (Català) France (Français) Ελλάδα (Ελληνική) Guatemala (Español) Honduras (Español) Hong Kong (English) 香港 (中文) India (English) Indonesia (Bahasa Indonesia) Indonesia (English) Ireland (English) Israel (English) ישראל (עִבְרִית) Italia (Italiano) 日本 (日本語) Malaysia (English) Malaysia (Melayu) México (Español) Nederland (Nederlands) New Zealand (English) Nicaragua (Español) Norge (Norsk) Panamá (Español) Paraguay (Español) Perú (Español) Philippines (English) Polska (Polski) Portugal (Português) Puerto Rico (Español) República Dominicana (Español) România (Română) Suisse (Français) Schweiz (Deutsch) Singapore (English) South Africa (English) 대한민국 (한국어) Suomi (Suomi) Sverige (Svenska) 台灣 (中文) Türkiye (Türkçe) United Arab Emirates (English) United Kingdom (English) United States (English) Estados Unidos (Español) Uruguay (Español) Venezuela (Español) Vietnam (English) Việt Nam (Việt) Österreich (Deutsch) Česká republika (Čeština) Україна (Українська) المملكة العربية السعودية (العَرَبِيَّة) Saudi Arabia (English) ประเทศไทย (ภาษาไทย) Thailand (English) Compare flight deals from 100s of sites. Search cheap flights by destination Find Cheap Flights Save money on airfare by searching for cheap flight tickets on KAYAK. KAYAK searches for flight deals on hundreds of airline tickets sites to help you find the cheapest flights. Whether you are looking for a last minute flight or a cheap plane ticket for a later date, you can find the best deals faster at KAYAK. Frequently asked questions What do I need to know before booking a flight? There are various factors to consider when booking a flight including cost, fare classes, baggage policies, the complications of flying long haul, and complying with airport regulations. To make your booking journey smoother KAYAK has developed a comprehensive flight guide including insights on finding affordable flights, packing efficiently, and utilizing the best travel tools. What is the cheapest day of the week to book a flight? The best day to book your flight depends on a number of factors, but there are general trends that you can follow to increase your chances of cheaper plane tickets. Based on an analysis of KAYAK data for all flights departing from inside United States over the last 12 months, the cheapest day to fly for domestic flights is Wednesday. For international flights, Tuesday had the cheapest tickets on average. Which month of the year are flight prices lowest? It’s well established that flights in the low season are generally cheaper than ticket prices during the high season. That means that knowing which month to find the lowest priced plane tickets will depend heavily on seasonality and your destination. While avoiding peak travel times can help you keep costs down, our data shows that the month with the lowest priced plane tickets for domestic flights based on all searches made on KAYAK in the last 12 months was September, while the most expensive was March. If you’re booking an international flight, then November is the cheapest month to fly and December the most expensive. When is the best time to buy plane tickets - Last minute or in advance? Last minute flight deals are definitely up for grabs but when exactly to purchase your plane tickets will depend on where you’re traveling to and from. Based on all data for flight searches made on KAYAK over the last 12 months, prices for domestic flights remained below the average price up to 1 weeks before departure. For international flights, deals could still be had up to 1 weeks prior to the departure date, with prices remaining below average. If you’re flexible, KAYAK brings you both advance and last minute one-way and round-trip flight deals. Can flying international flights with a layover save money on airfare? For many long-haul international flights, flying non-stop is not possible and you will have to fly with a layover. Some routes will offer both and you could consider flying with a layover for a number of reasons. Firstly, breaking up what would otherwise be a long-haul flight, taking a rest and then completing the journey might make the flight more manageable. Secondly, prices can also be lower than non-stop flights, so while it might take longer for you to reach your destination, you could save money. We’ve looked at prices over the last 12 months for the 100 most popular international destinations for KAYAK users and on average, prices for non-stop flights were cheaper than flights with a layover. How does KAYAK find such low flight prices? KAYAK processes over 2 billion flight queries annually and displays results from hundreds of airlines and third party sites, allowing it to find a variety of flight prices and options. It also displays results from 2M+ properties along with rental cars, vacation packages, activities and millions of verified reviews so users can see as many available travel options as possible. How do I find the best flight deals on KAYAK? A simple flight search at https://www.kayak.com/flights scans for prices on hundreds of travel sites in seconds. We gather flight deals from across the web and put them in one place. Then on the search results page you can use various filters to compare options for the same flight and easily choose the best flight deal from all of the deals coming straight from the travel sites to your screen, with no extra fee from KAYAK. How can Hacker Fares save me money? Hacker Fares allow you to combine one-way tickets on different airlines when it can save you money over a traditional round-trip ticket. Does KAYAK query more flight providers than competitors? Yes, KAYAK has access to more data and information than online travel agencies and consistently outperforms the competition in accuracy, globally. How does KAYAK's flight Price Forecast tool help me choose the right time to buy? KAYAK's flight Price Forecast tool uses historical data to determine whether the price for a given destination and date is likely to change within 7 days, so travelers know whether to wait or book now. What is KAYAK's "flexible dates" feature and why should I care? Sometimes travel dates aren't set in stone. If your preferred travel dates have some wiggle room, flexible dates will show you flights up to 3 days before/after your preferred dates. That way, you can see if leaving a day or two earlier will find you a better deal. You can also select the flexible "weekend" or "month" search options to widen your search range and find the cheapest price that works for you. Search cheap flights with KAYAK. Search for the cheapest airline tickets for all the top airlines around the world, airports around the world and the top international flight routes. KAYAK searches hundreds of travel sites to help you find cheap airfare and book a flight that suits you best. Since KAYAK searches many plane tickets sites at once, you can find cheap tickets from cheap airlines, one-way flights, multi-city flights, last minute flight deals and Flights Under $100 quickly. KAYAK also helps you find the right hotels for your needs.
