Streamers continue to give us more choices in content, pricing and features, and you may find yourself regularly comparing all your subscriptions. Our comprehensive rundown of services like Netflix, Disney Plus and HBO Max, can help you figure out which platforms are right for you. We've reviewed each of these services and assigned numeric ratings based on catalogs, app design and features and overall value. Some of our analyses are based on our content preferences, so keep that in mind if you have different tastes. If you want to go beyond on-demand platforms, check out our lineup of the best live TV streaming services. Our Picks There's a reason why Netflix has become shorthand for streaming in general. The service has evolved into a must-have streaming app, even if you choose to pay extra to share your password. With big originals like Squid Game, Wednesday and Stranger Things dropping new seasons in 2025, and award-winning titles, it's giving us the closest thing we have to watercooler conversations these days. Simple interface that's easy to navigate Solid recommendation system Abundant catalog of licensed movies, shows and originals including Bridgerton, Wednesday Expensive subscription plans Fee for extra members Disney Plus is one of Netflix's closest competitors as the only place where you can stream the vast majority of the Disney and Pixar libraries, along with every Star Wars movie, Marvel films, original TV shows, NatGeo content and The Simpsons. Shows like Bluey, Andor and Daredevil: Born Again attract millions of fans, and its catalog of films include brand hits such as Moana, Mufasa: The Lion King and Deadpool & Wolverine. But now, its ad-based plan is $12 per month (more than Netflix, Peacock and HBO Max's ad-based plans), while the ad-free version is $19 a month. Huge library that includes Agatha All Along, Daredevil, Moana Can be bundled Adjustable content rating system Can watch Hulu, ESPN within app Extended waits for new or original releases Charges extra member fee HBO Max has HBO's entire library, DC Universe titles and almost every Studio Ghibli film, along with favorites such as Friends, the Lord of the Rings movies and movies like Sinners and Mickey 17. It's the primary destination for new Warner Bros.-owned feature films, folds in unscripted series from Discovery brands like HGTV and TLC and is home to HBO Max originals such as Hacks and The Pitt. It's not Disney Plus, but HBO Max has a decent streaming collection for kids, too, with the ability to control ratings on kids' profiles. Slick interface Loads of top-grade content for all audiences Titles include The Last of Us, The White Lotus and House of the Dragon Reliable, customizable parental controls HBO titles stream at the same time as cable network Pricier subscriptions, even with ads Constant removal of beloved content like Looney Tunes For $12 per month (with ads), Hulu offers a counterpoint to Netflix depending on what you like to watch. Its library has a huge variety of familiar shows from networks like ABC, Fox and FX that you can watch soon after they air (unlike on Netflix), as well as a growing catalog of its own critically acclaimed original series like The Handmaid's Tale, Shogun and Only Murders in the Building. New anime releases and original films and shows beef up its catalog, and we like that you can stream some titles on the Disney Plus app if you have both services. Access to network shows and originals including Abbott Elementary, The Handmaid's Tale, Love Island New episodes are available almost immediately Option to get a bundle Smaller catalog of originals than its rivals Can't access outside the US Menus are sometimes hard to navigate Glitches on occasion Prime Video now has ads in its default version of the streaming app, but you can pay a $3 fee to stream without them. The commercial breaks are relatively short compared with other streamers. The platform offers quality original shows and movies like The Boys and Invincible, an impressive back catalog of older favorites (and B-movies you haven't heard of) and live NFL games on Thursday nights. If you're interested in checking out any of its originals like Fallout, Nascar, Thursday Night Football or Prime Video's large movie selection, it may even be worth paying the standalone $9-per-month TV fee (if you don't have Amazon Prime). Included with Prime membership Large selection of movies and TV shows including The Boys, The Rings of Power and Swarm Offline downloads Confusing search process and menus Free and paid content stacked together Defaults to ad-based version NBCUniversal's streaming service Peacock offers a basic $8 monthly option with ads, and it also excludes Peacock Originals. We recommend going up to at least the Premium ad-supported option for $11 a month, granting you access to more than 80,000 hours worth of content from NBC, Bravo, SyFy, Universal Pictures and USA Network. Upgrade to Premium Plus for $17 a month to watch without commercials. Fan favorites on the platform include Law & Order and The Office, and viewers can also watch live NFL Sunday Night Football, Premier League soccer matches, WWE events and originals like Bel-Air, Traitors and Poker Face. Stream Yellowstone, Real Housewives, Chicago Fire, live sports, Bel-Air Live broadcasts of NFL's Sunday Night Football and other sports Decent selection of new and older movies like Wicked No offline downloads for mobile unless you upgrade Paramount Plus brings together live news and sports with on-demand shows and movies, including originals, leaning on parent company Paramount's brands like CBS, MTV, BET, Comedy Central, Nickelodeon and Paramount Network, plus its Paramount Pictures movie studio. Now that Showtime series and movies have merged into the Paramount Plus app, you can upgrade to a premium subscription to watch content from both services in one place. Large selection of reality shows, kids' titles from Nickelodeon, and access to CBS hits Streams major movies such as Gladiator II and Top Gun: Maverick soon after release Live NFL games Inexpensive monthly price Ability to watch Showtime titles Few originals outside of Evil, Yellowstone: 1883 and Star Trek Not much 4K HDR content Apple TV (formerly Apple TV Plus) is a premium, ad-free streaming service available at $13 a month. It does come with high-end features like 4K resolution, HDR and mobile downloads, but it's also the one service on this list that includes mostly original content, and no regular back catalog of shows or movies to explore. Fans of prestige TV shows can get their fix without worrying about ads. There's also a small selection of kid-friendly titles on the service. It now has more than 100 exclusive, big-budget original programming shows and movies, but only a few have captured widespread attention, such as Ted Lasso and CODA, which won 2022's Oscar for best picture, along with Severance. Although the service is branching out with live Formula 1 (coming in 2026), Major League Baseball and Major League Soccer games, its library is far smaller than what you'll find with any of the other services on this list. Ted Lasso, and prestige shows such as Pachinko, Foundation, The Morning Show, Severance No ads All originals stream with 4K, HDR, Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos Cheap monthly rate Small selection of titles Lack of older content Limited Android support Best streaming services of 2025 Pros Simple interface that's easy to navigate Solid recommendation system Abundant catalog of licensed movies, shows and originals including Bridgerton, Wednesday Cons Expensive subscription plans Fee for extra members There's a reason why Netflix has become shorthand for streaming in general. The service has evolved into a must-have streaming app, even if you choose to pay extra to share your password. With big originals like Squid Game, Wednesday and Stranger Things dropping new seasons in 2025, and award-winning titles, it's giving us the closest thing we have to watercooler conversations these days. Netflix has a dependable and user-friendly interface while offering a vast range of features and a constantly evolving catalog with diverse content -- there's something for everyone. New on-demand shows and movies arrive each week, making running out of stuff to watch hard. You also get mobile games, live events like WWE Raw, kids' content, and anime and foreign-language programming, plus you can discover titles by using secret codes. Its ad-based tier makes it more affordable than rivals such as Disney Plus, Hulu and HBO Max, but we admit the recent price hike makes its ad-free plans pricy. Popular titles : Squid Game, Stranger Things, KPop Demon Hunters, Wednesday. Pros Huge library that includes Agatha All Along, Daredevil, Moana Can be bundled Adjustable content rating system Can watch Hulu, ESPN within app Cons Extended waits for new or original releases Charges extra member fee Disney Plus is one of Netflix's closest competitors as the only place where you can stream the vast majority of the Disney and Pixar libraries, along with every Star Wars movie, Marvel films, original TV shows, NatGeo content and The Simpsons. Shows like Bluey, Andor and Daredevil: Born Again attract millions of fans, and its catalog of films include brand hits such as Moana, Mufasa: The Lion King and Deadpool & Wolverine. But now, its ad-based plan is $12 per month (more than Netflix, Peacock and HBO Max's ad-based plans), while the ad-free version is $19 a month. Disney Plus is a family-friendly streaming TV choice that offers the most value when bundled with other services like Hulu or HBO Max; however, the Disney Plus and Hulu app merger is set for early next year. You can easily navigate Disney Plus with its hub tiles, and if you're also subscribed to Hulu or ESPN, you can watch content for both within the app. Like Netflix, however, it now charges an optional extra user fee if you want to share your account. If you are a bundle lover, you should get one of Disney's money-saving packages. Ad-free Disney Plus is $19 monthly, and there are six bundles that range from $13 to $45 per month. $13 gets you basic Disney Plus and Hulu with ads, while ad-free Premium is $20. For $20 monthly, a triple basic package comes with Disney Plus, Hulu and ESPN Select all with ads, and the $30 premium version of that nets you all three streaming platforms, and only ESPN Select has ads. Upgrade to a bundle with ESPN Unlimited, and the ad-based package runs $36 a month, and the ad-free plan is $45 monthly. Though it's not an official "Disney Bundle," there's an alternate package that combines HBO Max, Hulu and Disney Plus for either $20 or $33 a month, depending on whether you want to go with ads or ad-free. Popular titles: Agatha All Along, Bluey, The Mandalorian, Andor Pros Slick interface Loads of top-grade content for all audiences Titles include The Last of Us, The White Lotus and House of the Dragon Reliable, customizable parental controls HBO titles stream at the same time as cable network Cons Pricier subscriptions, even with ads Constant removal of beloved content like Looney Tunes HBO Max has HBO's entire library, DC Universe titles and almost every Studio Ghibli film, along with favorites such as Friends, the Lord of the Rings movies and movies like Sinners and Mickey 17. It's the primary destination for new Warner Bros.-owned feature films, folds in unscripted series from Discovery brands like HGTV and TLC and is home to HBO Max originals such as Hacks and The Pitt. It's not Disney Plus, but HBO Max has a decent streaming collection for kids, too, with the ability to control ratings on kids' profiles. Although its 8.0 rating is neck-and-neck with Prime Video's, HBO Max consistently drops new releases, possesses a large back catalog, and offers user-friendly features. New episodes are surfaced at the top of the home page, and search functionality and brand hubs help make navigation a snap. The B/R sports tier, which streams live sports events for MLB, NHL, NBA, and more, is included on its ad-free premium plans. HBO Max is $10 per month for its ad plan, and it's at the higher end of the streaming spectrum. If you prefer the ad-free experience, the cost jumps up to $17 or $21 per month. Popular titles: The Last of Us , The Righteous Gemstones, Heretic, The White Lotus Pros Access to network shows and originals including Abbott Elementary, The Handmaid's Tale, Love Island New episodes are available almost immediately Option to get a bundle Cons Smaller catalog of originals than its rivals Can't access outside the US Menus are sometimes hard to navigate Glitches on occasion For $12 per month (with ads), Hulu offers a counterpoint to Netflix depending on what you like to watch. Its library has a huge variety of familiar shows from networks like ABC, Fox and FX that you can watch soon after they air (unlike on Netflix), as well as a growing catalog of its own critically acclaimed original series like The Handmaid's Tale, Shogun and Only Murders in the Building. New anime releases and original films and shows beef up its catalog, and we like that you can stream some titles on the Disney Plus app if you have both services. Hulu has new and old movies from Searchlight, 20th Century Studios and its own production team (have you seen Prey?), while kids can stream picks from Disney brands. There's also a live news feed from ABC that's included. If you have $12 a month to spare and don't mind trading a few ads for TV options, Hulu is a no-brainer. You also have the option to upgrade to a no-ads plan for $19 a month or get a Disney bundle to save money on the service -- until both apps merge into one next year. Separately, you can get Hulu's live TV streaming for $90 a month for a full cable replacement. Popular titles : Abbott Elementary, Shogun, The Handmaid's Tale Pros Included with Prime membership Large selection of movies and TV shows including The Boys, The Rings of Power and Swarm Offline downloads Cons Confusing search process and menus Free and paid content stacked together Defaults to ad-based version Prime Video now has ads in its default version of the streaming app, but you can pay a $3 fee to stream without them. The commercial breaks are relatively short compared with other streamers. The platform offers quality original shows and movies like The Boys and Invincible, an impressive back catalog of older favorites (and B-movies you haven't heard of) and live NFL games on Thursday nights. If you're interested in checking out any of its originals like Fallout, Nascar, Thursday Night Football or Prime Video's large movie selection, it may even be worth paying the standalone $9-per-month TV fee (if you don't have Amazon Prime). It lacks the catalogs of Netflix and Hulu and the star power of Disney's streaming platform, but it's where you can subscribe to other services such as HBO Max, Paramount Plus or Apple TV Plus as add-ons to make it convenient to stream in one place. The streamer also offers a suite of live channels that include local news feeds, PBS Kids and more. Prime Video's recent redesign aims to cut through navigation confusion with clearer labeling and menu updates, so you can distinguish among included Prime Video content, what requires a paid subscription or what's available to rent. Non-Prime members may not find Prime Video's library enticing enough to pay for a monthly standalone subscription. While there are quality shows and movies on the platform that you can either binge or watch weekly, its slate of new releases isn't as robust as other services. Popular titles : The Boys, Good Omens, Cross, Fallout Pros Stream Yellowstone, Real Housewives, Chicago Fire, live sports, Bel-Air Live broadcasts of NFL's Sunday Night Football and other sports Decent selection of new and older movies like Wicked Cons No offline downloads for mobile unless you upgrade NBCUniversal's streaming service Peacock offers a basic $8 monthly option with ads, and it also excludes Peacock Originals. We recommend going up to at least the Premium ad-supported option for $11 a month, granting you access to more than 80,000 hours worth of content from NBC, Bravo, SyFy, Universal Pictures and USA Network. Upgrade to Premium Plus for $17 a month to watch without commercials. Fan favorites on the platform include Law & Order and The Office, and viewers can also watch live NFL Sunday Night Football, Premier League soccer matches, WWE events and originals like Bel-Air, Traitors and Poker Face. New episodes of NBC TV series reside on Peacock and are streamable the next day, and Premium Plus members can watch live local NBC channels in real time. Universal films hit the platform after their theatrical run, so you can enjoy new movies like Wicked, Nosferatu and The Wild Robot with your subscription. The streamer also includes a line of live channels across genres like Unsolved Mysteries, NBC News Now and Game Show Central. Peacock drops in the rankings due to its lack of mobile downloads for its non-premium plus tiers and limited 4K HDR streaming, which most of its competitors offer. That said, it's budget-friendly, and you can get the service as part of a bundle with Netflix and Apple TV Plus if you have Xfinity, and there are ways to get Peacock for free. Popular titles : Yellowstone, Love Island USA, Traitors, Poker Face, Bel-Air Pros Large selection of reality shows, kids' titles from Nickelodeon, and access to CBS hits Streams major movies such as Gladiator II and Top Gun: Maverick soon after release Live NFL games Inexpensive monthly price Ability to watch Showtime titles Cons Few originals outside of Evil, Yellowstone: 1883 and Star Trek Not much 4K HDR content Paramount Plus brings together live news and sports with on-demand shows and movies, including originals, leaning on parent company Paramount's brands like CBS, MTV, BET, Comedy Central, Nickelodeon and Paramount Network, plus its Paramount Pictures movie studio. Now that Showtime series and movies have merged into the Paramount Plus app, you can upgrade to a premium subscription to watch content from both services in one place. The service has a ton of content: 40,000 episodes of TV and 2,500 movies, plus dozens of original series, for either $8 a month (with ads) or $13 a month (ad-free with Showtime). Two of its biggest draws include South Park and Taylor Sheridan series Landman, 1923, 1883 and Tulsa King. Buzz-worthy Paramount feature films like Gladiator II, Top Gun: Maverick and Sonic 3 also land here first after they hit theaters. Much of Paramount's value lies in nostalgia: You can watch almost every old Nickelodeon show, Comedy Central stand-up specials and popular series ranging from Frasier and Cheers to SpongeBob SquarePants and Young & the Restless. Additionally, Paramount Plus has a Live Channels feature that enables subscribers to watch curated content in special categories. You can check out live content for Star Trek, CBS Sports HQ, Paw Patrol and more with either subscription plan. Popular titles : Yellowjackets, Evil, Landman, Tulsa King, Lioness, Tracker, Ghosts Pros Ted Lasso, and prestige shows such as Pachinko, Foundation, The Morning Show, Severance No ads All originals stream with 4K, HDR, Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos Cheap monthly rate Cons Small selection of titles Lack of older content Limited Android support Apple TV (formerly Apple TV Plus) is a premium, ad-free streaming service available at $13 a month. It does come with high-end features like 4K resolution, HDR and mobile downloads, but it's also the one service on this list that includes mostly original content, and no regular back catalog of shows or movies to explore. Fans of prestige TV shows can get their fix without worrying about ads. There's also a small selection of kid-friendly titles on the service. It now has more than 100 exclusive, big-budget original programming shows and movies, but only a few have captured widespread attention, such as Ted Lasso and CODA, which won 2022's Oscar for best picture, along with Severance. Although the service is branching out with live Formula 1 (coming in 2026), Major League Baseball and Major League Soccer games, its library is far smaller than what you'll find with any of the other services on this list. The app can be confusing because it's housed in the larger Apple TV app with other content. However, Apple TV is now available as a Prime Video add-on and on Android devices. It has one big advantage: There are a lot of ways to get it for free, at least for a while. If you're a degree-seeking college student, a new purchaser of an Apple device, or someone who subscribes to the Apple One bundle, you can snag a long-term free trial of Apple TV. Popular titles : Ted Lasso, Severance, Slow Horses, Pachinko, For All Mankind Comparing streaming service offerings Below is a summarized look at each service's price, simultaneous streams and availability of ad-based plans to help you decide which platforms are a good fit for you. Streaming services compared Netflix Peacock HBO Max Disney Plus Apple TV Prime Video Hulu Paramount Plus Monthly price Starts at $8 $8 for Select, $11 for Premium, $17 for Premium Plus Starts at $11 Starts at $12 $13 $9 with ads (or included with $140/year Prime membership) Basic $12 with ads, ad-free for $19 $8 for basic with ads, $13 for ad-free. Showtime Ads Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes Yes Top titles Stranger Things, Squid Game, Bridgerton, Wednesday The Office, Traitors, Bel-Air, early access to Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon The Last of Us, Euphoria, Peacemaker The Mandalorian, Bluey, Moana Ted Lasso, Severance The Boys, Reacher, The Wheel of Time Handmaid's Tale, Shogun, The Bear Star Trek: Picard, South Park, 1883, Ru-Paul's Drag Race Mobile downloads Yes Yes (on Premium Plus) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 4K HDR available Yes (on Premium plan) No Yes (limited titles) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Number of streams: 1 (2 for Standard, 4 on Premium) 3 2 for basic and standard, 4 on premium 4 6 2 2 3 Factors to consider Simultaneous streams: Services usually charge more for more streams. Be sure you're covered for yourself and other members of your household, and consider whether you have to pay extra to share your account. Finding shows and movies: Is the interface user-friendly on TVs and mobile devices? All of these services have organized home screens with recommendation rows, continue-watch sections, and genre hubs. The ad experience: When we tested ad loads for these services, we found that platforms like Hulu and Paramount ran ad breaks longer than the others. Additionally, there are services that don't include ads on kids' profiles, such as HBO Max, Netflix and Hulu. A downside for the ad-supported tiers on Netflix and Disney Plus is that these plans exclude select titles. Kids' programming: Some streamers offer a large variety of family-friendly titles for all ages, while others, like Apple TV Plus, have limited catalogs. The best kids' streaming services have something for every age. Save money with bundles: You can cut your costs by choosing to bundle your streaming services together, such as Comcast's StreamSaver, a Disney Bundle or with a food delivery service. One of the best offerings available right now is the HBO Max-Disney package, but new bundles are constantly being introduced. Don't miss any of our unbiased tech content and lab-based reviews. Add CNET as a preferred Google source. How we test streaming services Chances are you're already pretty familiar with most of the names on this list, but it's by no means comprehensive. There are plenty of other ways to stream and hundreds of other choices available. As we evaluated these particular streaming options, we kept certain things in mind. This list is ordered based on the numerical value I assigned to each streaming service in their individual review, which I determined by design (i.e. ease of use across different TV and mobile platforms), features (like 4K HDR, mobile downloads, recommendations, watch lists and number of streams), content (frequency and number of shows and quality of originals and back catalogs) and value (price compared to these other factors). We stream using a Roku stick, smart TV, Apple TV box, mobile phone, tablet and Fire TV stick. Each platform offers the same standard features on the home screen, and we found that HBO Max, Disney Plus and Hulu excel with dedicated hubs and collections, while Netflix's recommendation rows for current, older and upcoming picks combined and genre-based organization are superior. Subtle features are also a plus, like the ability to share titles via text from HBO Max and Netflix, or Netflix's 'Moments' functionality that lets you save scenes from your favorite titles. We also measure ad time on ad-based plans and look for glitches during playback. See each service's reviews for full details.
