Trust our experienced builders to create the space your family needs while increasing the value of your home. We are one of Salt Lake County’s leading residential general contractors, having done hundreds of remodels throughout the area. Renovating a home can be a daunting project, but here at Topp Remodeling & Construction, remodeling your Salt Lake area home to better fit your lifestyle and preferences is our expertise! We love to work with our clients to create a custom space they will love to live in for years to come. Whether you’re thinking of a few upgrades, a full remodel, or a brand new addition to your home, Topp Remodeling & Construction is the team you need. Perhaps you need more space because your family has grown, your use of the space changed, your home’s layout no longer suits your needs or you need to stay in your current house for a few more years until the real estate market recovers. Whatever your reason, room remodeling, extensions, and additions can solve your problems and add value to your home. Any large remodeling or home addition project in Salt Lake City requires you to consider many options and choices, to ensure that your addition meets your needs and serves the purpose that you want it to. It’s also important to make sure that the design of the addition flows seamlessly with the rest of your home and neighborhood. Working with an experienced and creative home remodeling contractor in Salt Lake City will guarantee that the planning, design, selections, and construction are done correctly and that you are ultimately happy with your new space. At Topp Remodeling & Construction, we think of your addition or remodel project from the inside out. We won’t just tack on an addition to give you more space; we reconfigure your space to work better for you, and to add highly functional square footage to your home. It’s more like an upgrade to your entire home than it is a simple addition to your existing home. Upgrade your home by remodeling or building new rooms and installing features that will improve livability and value. A sunroom, for example, will help to bring the beauty of the outdoors in, while a family room will be a great space where everyone can spend time together. Second-story additions can also add value and space to your home, while bathroom additions may just make your morning routine a bit easier. Adding or expanding a garage is highly valued today, too, as is a mother-in-law suite for extended family visitors. You can also use a new room as a temporary home office. The home addition that gives the highest value today, though, is a laundry room. As excited as you must be to update your home, you’ll want to do a few things first. At Topp Remodeling & Construction, we think of your addition or remodel project from the inside out. We won’t just tack on an addition to give you more space; we reconfigure your space to work better for you, and to add highly functional square footage to your home. It’s more like an upgrade to your entire home than it is a simple addition to your existing home. We also offer our services in framing, custom building, commercial build-outs, and basement finishing. Our crew can work on your home if you’re in Salt Lake or Summit Counties. Get in touch with us today and schedule an appointment.
