About 75 percent of people responding to Life Time’s 2025 Wellness Survey say they plan to put their health first in 2025—almost 20 percent more than last year. And with 99.3 percent of respondents reporting they get a happiness boost after working out, it’s no wonder people are blocking time for more physical activity. As the year starts to unfold, it’s time to re-evaluate priorities and leave less-than-ideal fads in the past. And though 2024 saw many worthwhile trends take off, not all are worth pursuing. Whether you need a total reset or want to make some tweaks to your routine, sifting the good from the trendy-but-questionable methods (we’re looking at you, quadrobics) can be tricky. 74.7 percent of respondents plan to prioritize their health in 2025—a nearly 20 percent increase from 2024. To help, we tapped on-the-ground experts to unpack the up-and-coming fitness trends they’re seeing for 2025. This guide will fill you in on the most popular—and worthwhile—fitness trends we’re loving and what to pass on for a fitter, healthier you this year. Biggest Fitness Trends and Predictions of 2025 1. Building Muscle Reigns Supreme According to LifeTime’s 2025 Wellness Survey, building muscle is the top health goal among responders for the third year in a row. ‘Working in the gym and fitness industry for a while now, the top fitness trend for men is still strength training, with a primary focus being on progressive overload and compound movements,” says Joan Rogers, Head of Studio Programming at Pop Life in Cleveland and a certified ACE Personal Trainer. More people are choosing strength training as their go-to workout of choice over the last year, according to ClassPass, coming in at number 3 out of the top 10 workouts on their list. 2. Low-Impact Training Meets the Need for Accessible Fitness Low-impact training grew by 109% in reservations this year, according to LifeTime’s annual report. The last couple of years have seen a slow but steady re-emergence of traditional, restorative cardio, edging back into the scene after an undeserved banishment in favor of more intense forms of cardio workouts such as high-intensity interval training (HIIT). But, the benefits of conventional cardio are underrated. “If you’re looking for long-term and overall health benefits, steady-state cardio will help to train your cardiorespiratory system and enhance your aerobic capacity, as well as reduce your risk of type-2 diabetes, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol,” says Daniel McKenna, CPT, creator of The Irish Yank Fitness app, NASM-certified celebrity trainer, and former Irish Gaelic football athlete What’s more, walking and moderate cardio help reduce stress and improve mental health—and who couldn’t use some help with that? “This type of steady movement is becoming popular because it’s easy to sustain and is gentle on the body,” adds Stan Kravchenko, founder of OneFit app and trainer to Bravo host Andy Cohen. Walking and consistent cardio are excellent for heart health and can be smoothly integrated into everyday life. “Its appeal lies in not needing fancy gear or advanced skills,” says Kravchenko. With a growing desire to prioritize balance over a balls-to-wall mentality, taking a more practical-yet-consistent approach to movement will grow in popularity during 2025. 3. Pilates Continuing to Grow Among Men Pilates is in its second year as number one of the top 10 workouts, according to ClassPass. In recent years, Pilates has undergone a major transformation. Gone are the days of a rigid, repetitive routine—today’s Pilates is dynamic, engaging, and, let’s be honest, seriously hard. Jill Drummond, NASM certified personal trainer, Pilates instructor, and BODYBAR Pilates Director of Programming and Education, says the more challenging aspects of Pilates, and in particular, Reformer Pilates, is gaining traction among men because it’s an ideal pairing for traditional weight-room workouts that tend dominate most men’s fitness routines. “Reformer Pilates enhances coordination, agility, and strength through complex movement patterns while improving joint mobility and muscular flexibility—plus, its trunk-focused exercises build next-level core strength, making it a powerhouse addition to any training regimen,” she says. Tony Horton, the OG fitness trendsetter, creator of the wildly successful P90X workouts, and trainer to A-list celebs such as Bruce Springsteen and Billy Idol, isn’t surprised that men have begun to catch on to the benefits of Pilates. “Many men overlook the benefits both yoga and Pilates can have on their overall fitness, such as building core strength, improving balance, overall strength, and flexibility,” he says. If you want to be stable and independent, maintaining your badassery long into your silver fox era, Pilates shouldn’t be overlooked. Horton credits staying flexible and having a strong core for keeping him looking young and healthy, and helping him prioritize mindfulness. “When my male clients are prepping for a new role or tour, I always incorporate yoga and Pilates into their routines to ensure optimal results,” he says. 5 Boxing Workouts That'll Get You Into Fighting Shape to Last 12 Rounds Choose from one of these five boxing workout routines to build brute strength, rapid-fast reflexes, and superhuman endurance. 4. Old-School Workouts are Making a Comeback People are looking to the past for their fitness inspiration in 2025. Searches for several retro, traditional training modalities have skyrocketed—we’re talking step aerobics (+124%), rollerblading (+123%), breaking classes (+86%), and boxing (+84%)—making a return to old-school workouts one of the biggest fitness trends of 2025, according to PureGym’s annual Fitness Report. “Fitness trends come and go each year, but ultimately those that stand the test of time are the ones that are not only effective but are truly enjoyable too,” says Claire Phippen from PureGym Norwich. Workouts need to be fun and motivating for people to stick to them – if they’re either too boring or too challenging, it’s easy to give up. 5. Expansion of AI and Virtual Tech Based Workouts VR and gamification of exercise is how fitness stays relevant and appeal to more people in 2025. Andy Hoang, the Founder & CEO of Aviron, creators of game-based rowing machines, believes gamified fitness will be at the center of the wellness landscape this year. Gamified workouts turn exercise into entertainment by harnessing the positive aspects of gaming—increased confidence, problem-solving, and resiliency. “It’s not just about being fit; It’s about finding a way to work out that is enjoyable and keeps you coming back for more,” says Hoang. VR is undoubtedly becoming more popular, according to Krachenko. “It’s a great way to gamify your fitness, keep you motivated, and build a community,” he says. Ergatta's Gamified Rowing Workouts Bring the Fun—and the Intensity Ergatta adds a big dose of motivational gaming to the low-impact, high-octane cardio to ensure things always stay interesting. In a world with instant dopamine hits at the tips of your fingers, fitness needs to be entertaining; otherwise, most people won’t be able to stick with it. In 2022, the global market for VR fitness games was about $11.1 billion and is projected to hit $16.2 billion by 2030, a growth rate of roughly 4.7 percent from 2023 to 2030. “Group fitness classes incorporating elements from video games, virtual reality (VR), and augmented reality (AR) will grow in 2025, where members can earn points, unlock achievements, complete challenges, and more,” says Ani Oksayan, certified personal trainer and VP of Fitness for Chuze Fitness. 6. Prioritizing Whole Body Fitness Functional Training Functional fitness has taken on a new life and is set to continue growing in 2025. ‘In the past, the focus was more on aesthetics, and while that’s still present today, it’s been overtaken by the emphasis on being able to put those muscles to use,” says Rogers. “Mobility, flexibility, and endurance now play a crucial role—discovering how capable the body can be when trained in all aspects of movement.” One example of the desire to test how capable the body can be is the hugely successful Hyrox race—a combo of running and functional fitness movements. It’s 2025’s second biggest fitness trend, with a 233% growth over the last year, according to PureGym’s annual Fitness Report. “We’re seeing continued focus around building a foundation of support for long and healthy living—including functional fitness, injury prevention, and multi-generational programming,” says Ani Oksayan, certified personal trainer and VP of Fitness for Chuze Fitness. With this purpose at the forefront, modalities like mobility, yoga, and full-body training are more popular since they address both physical and mental health. Oksayan shares that increasing numbers of exercisers identify longevity and quality of life as focused goals. “People are curating well rounded, holistic programs for themselves that include a wider range of modalities that address building strength, increasing flexibility and supporting real-life movements,” she says. The Prehab Moves You Need to Avoid Injuries and Pain The best way to bounce back from injury is to avoid it in the first place, focusing on prehab stretches and stabilizing routines often seen in PT offices. 7. More People are Turning to Remote Personal Training Remote personal training is the top trend for 2025, according to PureGym’s annual report, with a 414% spike in interest over the last year. After the pandemic, virtual fitness classes and remote training saw a drop when in-person options returned, but lately, there’s been a leap in people looking for online personal training, likely due to the rise of remote and hybrid work. “Being able to access your PT remotely is a brilliant and convenient way to ensure you’re still working towards a goal, even when you might not be able to make it to the gym,” says Phippen. “Many individuals now opt for a blend of in-person and online coaching, with the flexibility of hybrid-working models allowing people to decide when they want to train at home and when they want the additional benefits that come with workouts at the gym, such as real-time feedback and social interaction,” she adds. 8. Recovery Will Reign Supreme As people realize how vital recovery is in their fitness routines, home recovery tools like ice baths, massage devices, home saunas, and even sauna blankets are getting more popular. Plus, these tools make it easy and accessible to handle recovery, which is key for consistent exercise and provides many physical and mental health benefits. LifeTime’s Wellness survey revealed more than 80% of people prioritize self-care and activities that promote happiness several times per week. “The average fitness member is continuing to be more holistic-minded and aware of prioritizing a combination of their physical, mental, and emotional health,” says Oksayan. ClassPass saw a 39% increase in massage bookings, and the growth of cold plunge therapy has also risen over the last year. LifeTime’s survey found that over half of respondents (69.1%) want to get in more sauna time, and 42.4% want to try ice baths or cryotherapy. InfraRed tech and cold plunge therapy are evolving and being used in saunas and heated mind-body studios, with people turning to them for better sleep, energy, immunity, less joint pain, mental clarity, and focus, according to Oksayan. Worst Fitness Fads to Leave Behind No list of trends would be complete without a thorough bashing of fads that deserve to be left in the dust. 1. Overtraining The “no rest days” mantra is long past its due date. The mental, physical, and emotional consequences of exercising too much without rest and recovery are just not worth it. Oksayan says instead, it’s best to focus on solutions like taking breaks to allow time for recovery, reducing the volume or intensity of training, periodization (structuring training to build in both periods of high intensity and rest), splitting trained muscles over days of the week, and increasing sleep time. “Overdoing cardio is not aligned with the trending focus on wellness, balance, and recovery. It’s beneficial for heart health, but experts prefer a more balanced approach, including strength training, moderate and sustainable cardio routines, and a healthy diet,” says Oksayan. If you’re the kind of person who just can’t sit still, you can always complete an active recovery workout movement, like walking, restorative yoga, swimming, tai chi, or hiking. “Allowing your muscles to heal and rejuvenate is vital so you can continue to train and live a healthy lifestyle, and those who choose to skip rest days and operate at a high-intensity level seven days a week are more susceptible to injury,” says Horton. 2. Doing Cardio Ad Nauseam for Weight Loss “One trend I’m seeing fade from the fitness world is people relying solely on cardio for fat loss,” says Rogers. HIIT, metcons, and overly enthusiastic CrossFit WODs had their day in the sun. Overdoing high-intensity cardio is incompatible with a growing focus on wellness, balance, and recovery. The good news is you don’t need to Tabata your way to shredded. “As much as I love to run, I consistently tell my clients—and anyone who asks about losing weight—that sticking to cardio alone won’t get the job done,” Rogers shares. Instead, she urges clients to focus on strength training as it is essential for building muscle and burning fat. Adding low-intensity workouts such as walking briskly or strengthening exercises to your routine are the best ways to get your heart rate up and burn extra calories to achieve a healthy, strong body. 3. Body-Part Splits for Muscle Gain Chest on Monday, back on Tuesday, biceps on Wednesday…training each major muscle group once per week on different days of the week is the traditional “split” method, but it’s worn out its welcome. Research shows that splitting up your workouts so each muscle group is hit at least twice weekly is likely the best way to pump out enough quality volume to grow bigger without accumulating too much fatigue or trickling into the realm of junk volume. Consider an upper-lower split or push-pull routine instead. 3. Fitness as Punishment Ditching “burn off that cupcake” and “work hard to earn a second serving” mentalities is the best way to align yourself with 2025’s biggest fitness trends, like recovery and stepping away from aesthetics in favor of longevity and functional movement. “Fitness should be about positive self-care and empowerment, not punishment,” says Oksayan. On that note, it’s also time to let go of over-the-top expectations and instead set reasonable goals.”Prioritize making small, sustainable, lifestyle changes based modifications and increased health rather than relying on supplements, pharmaceuticals, and fad diets,” advises Oksayan. 4. Avoiding Lifting to ‘Save’ Your Joints The misconception that lifting weights harms your lower back and knees is going the way of the dodo. “Strength training is now recognized for its benefits in improving joint health and overall strength, including in the lower back and knees,” says Stan Kravchenko, celebrity trainer, founder, and lead trainer at OneFit. The key is to use proper form and progress gradually. 4. No Knees Over Toes “Don’t let your knees go over your toes” was a standard exercise instruction for lunges, squats, and other movements for decades, but it’s not rooted in any valid logic. “The strict rule of not letting your knees go over your toes during lunges and squats is changing,” says Kravchenko. That’s, in part, due to the hard work and dedication of “Knees Over Toes Guy,” Ben Patrick. ”The extent to which knees pass the toes can vary based on individual anatomy and mobility,” adds Kravchenko. Instead, focus on overall form and balance rather than strict knee positioning. Why You Should Trust Us I’m a certified personal trainer, certified strength and conditioning specialist, pain-free performance specialist, and writer who’s witnessed all sorts of trends, both good and bad. With a passion for science-based training advice, I’m dedicated to helping people live healthy, happy lives without wasting their time, energy, or money on nonsense. For this article, I leveraged my expertise and interviewed experts in the fitness and wellness space. Meet the Experts Joan Rogers, Head of Studio Programming at Pop Life in Cleveland and a certified ACE Personal Trainer. Daniel McKenna, CPT, creator of The Irish Yank Fitness app, NASM-certified celebrity trainer, and former Irish Gaelic football athlete Jill Drummond, NASM certified personal trainer, Pilates instructor, and BODYBAR Pilates Director of Programming and Education. Claire Phippen, Certified Personal Trainer at PureGym Norwich. Ani Oksayan, certified personal trainer and VP of Fitness for Chuze Fitness. Stan Kravchenko, celebrity trainer, founder, and lead trainer at OneFit Tony Horton, founder of the P90X program, the most successful fitness program in America, and celebrity trainer. Andy Hoang, founder and CEO of Aviron, a game-based rowing machine company that’s been in the AI and marketing business for over a decade About the author Rachel MacPherson, C.P.T. Health & Fitness Writer, Men's Journal
