We're building AI skills programs, trainings, and tools to address the specific needs of workers everywhere. Discover Google's courses and resources designed to help you succeed in an AI-driven world. Explore foundational concepts in artificial intelligence. Learn how AI works and how to effectively use it in your daily work. Learn generative AI basics in this short video course–including what it is, how it’s used, and how it differs from traditional machine learning. New to AI? Learn about AI capabilities and how they can assist, empower, and inspire you. Use generative AI tools to speed up daily tasks and develop new ideas and content. Ready to get more out of AI? Learn how to use AI effectively by writing clear and specific instructions called prompts. In 5 easy steps you’ll boost your productivity and make AI work for you. Get better, faster results from Gemini in Google Workspace in this 15-minute course. Learn how to summarize emails, find information, and draft replies to manage your inbox more efficiently. Keeping up with the pace of AI can feel like a full-time job. Dig into AI Boost Bites, an AI learning series designed for your busy life, with less than 10 minutes per lesson. See how Google's own experts apply tools like Gemini, NotebookLM, and Veo to real-world use cases, then apply your skills in hands-on challenges. Take your AI knowledge to the next level. Apply AI skills to your work and learn how to build the next big thing. In this course, learn all about large language models (LLMs) and how to use prompt tuning to enhance LLM performance. In this course, learn about diffusion models that underpin state-of-the-art image generation models on Google Cloud, including how to train and deploy them on Vertex AI. Learn how to use Gemini—Google’s next-generation AI model—in the software development lifecycle to develop, test, deploy, and manage applications. of Google learners say that having a cloud certification gives them the skills to fill in-demand roles. of Google learners say that having a cloud certification helps them get promoted faster, and ultimately contributes to their professional success. of decision-makers agree that Google Cloud learning resources have helped their organization stay ahead in the AI era. Google/Ipsos, Cloud Learning Services Market Pulse, Fielded Sept 17th - October 23rd 2024 (US, UK, FR, DE, IN, BR, MX, JP, AU/NZ). Significantly outperforming based on an average of competitor platforms. Become a certified leader in gen AI. Prove your skills in identifying business cases for gen AI and driving organizational transformation. Equip your organization with essential AI skills to drive growth, scalability, and efficiency. This course provides leaders with an overview of how they can use Google products to transform their organization with AI and ML. Upskill employees with remote or in-person AI courses led by Google-authorized instructors. This expert-led training is designed to help small business owners tackle real business problems, and will lead you through guided practice solving these challenges using Google AI tools. Discover a curated collection of AI tutorials, explainers, and demos to deepen your understanding and build practical skills. Discover foundational AI concepts, such as machine learning (ML), and explore how AI works, including the rise of generative AI and how to perform tasks with it. Learn about Google’s seven AI principles, a framework designed to guide users toward a safer and more ethical use of AI. Explore different AI model options, analyze pricing structures, and dive into essential features of large language models (LLMs). Advance your prompting skills with advanced prompting techniques, like prompt-chaining and creating AI agents.
