Dr. Dillon H. USD 200 /hr I was accepted to the MAMF program at Columbia University in 2015 but chose for a variety of reasons to continue the economics doctoral program... USD 200 /hr Ozlem K. USD 60 /hr Ozlem Kilickaya, PhD. I am an instructor at the University of the People. In 2012, I graduated from Hacettepe University. In 2016, I graduated ... USD 60 /hr ANATH L. USD 25 /hr 5 years in research and writing as an influential author| Expert in business management and mental health services| Plus expertise in Global Br... USD 25 /hr Dr. Vandani V. USD 50 /hr Conducted research in Cryptography, Quantum Cryptography, Network Security, Blockchain, and IoT, with multiple publications in reputed journals... USD 50 /hr Dr. Eduard B. USD 500 /hr Professor Eduard Babulak is accomplished international scholar, researcher, consultant, educator, professional engineer and polyglot, with more... USD 500 /hr Dr. M. Saqib K. USD 70 /hr I am a PhD in Applied Mathematics with 10+ years of experience in Machine Learning, AI and Data Sciences. I specialize in algorithm development... USD 70 /hr Dr. Sajjad D. USD 60 /hr 🔥 Optimized Profile Summary for Your Freelance Cybersecurity Profile ✅ Freelance Cybersecurity Expert | Penetration Tester | Network &a... USD 60 /hr Dr. Patrick O. USD 10 /hr I am Dr. Patrick Oduor Owoche, currently serving as a Lecturer in the Department of Information Technology and Coordinator Linkages and Interna... USD 10 /hr Joan T. USD 20 /hr Investigador en ciencias de la tierra, atmosfera y ciber espacio USD 20 /hr Arieanna S. USD 100 /hr Arieanna has been helping organizations tell their stories since 2005. Arieanna works on all aspects of inbound marketing including case studie... USD 100 /hr Adam F. USD 200 /hr I performed inspections and premarket approvals for FDA for 7.5 years. I am now a Senior Consultant operating out of Switzerland. I operate a... USD 200 /hr César Daniel B. USD 70 /hr - Specialist in hydrocarbon gas chromatography using Gas Chromatographs with Flame Ionization Detection (GC-FID) and with Selective Detection b... USD 70 /hr Dr. Debika B. USD 70 /hr Proficient in Artificial Intelligence, Deep Learning, Data Science, Database Management Systems , Networking and Computer Architecture & Or... USD 70 /hr Dr. Saud K. USD 10 /hr Expertise in IT research, Cybersecurity, and Computer Science....Skilled in paper publication , technical writing, data analysis, and results generation.... USD 10 /hr Dr. Muhammad U. Dr Usman has 21 years of all-round academic and industry experience. He has worked in different continents of the world: Australia, Asia and Eu... Dr. Hafida S. USD 10 /hr HAFIDA SAIDI is a Doctor in Computer Science at the University of Tlemcen, Algeria. She received her Ph.D. degree in July 2023, and her Master&... USD 10 /hr Dr. Usama I. USD 150 /hr Technology executive with 15+ years of experience spearheading digital transformation and operational optimization for global organizations thr... USD 150 /hr Dr. Rachel L. USD 60 /hr An iconic architectural spirit in privacy strategies. As we've merged into a global economy and virtual reality spaces; PET (privacy enhanc... USD 60 /hr Dr. Junaid Z. USD 75 /hr This is Dr. Engr. Junaid Zafar. I have a PhD in Electrical & Computer Engineering from the University of Manchester, UK back in 2008. I ha... USD 75 /hr Dr. Paul G. USD 64 /hr I've worked in a broad spectrum of fields, but my primary research focus has been on improving education, especially in math, science, and ... USD 64 /hr Dr. Brian B. USD 120 /hr With over two decades of expertise in machine learning, natural language processing (NLP), and AI within production systems, I am a seasoned en... USD 120 /hr Dr. Anibrata P. USD 50 /hr With over 15 years of IT experience in various industries, I am a Ph.D. Researcher at Università degli Studi di Bari and a Co-Founder at @... USD 50 /hr Hamza S. USD 8 /hr Research writing with plagiarism Free Content 3+ years experience Computer Scientist Specialized in block-chain writing and enterprise-level in... USD 8 /hr Sanjay S. USD 140 /hr We are Group of Developers, Designers and Researchers. We are Technology Expert huge experience in Blockchain Technology, Virtual Reality, Micr... USD 140 /hr Akash P. USD 10 /hr got an year of experience in IT field with many satisfied clients. USD 10 /hr Kolabtree is the leading online marketplace for Cybersecurity experts. Post your project, get bids, and hire qualified experts quickly and easily. We take several measures to help you work with full confidence and peace of mind. Keep your project private Restrict who can see your project and send you proposals. Invite only specific freelancers to view your project. NDAs and IP protection Our T&C include a default confidentiality clause that protects your IP and NDA for added protection before disclosing project details. Kolabtree ensures safety and security of your payments and personal information and project details. Kolabtree’s T&C includes a default confidentiality and NDA clause. You will receive detailed proposals directly from Kolabtree. These proposals will include a comprehensive Statement of Work (SOW), project fees, milestones, and deadlines. You can choose to pay either a fixed or an hourly fee based on your scope of work. Pre-pay for the next milestone. You have to approve the deliverables only if the quality meets your expectations. If you arn’t happy, we’ll refund your money. Kolabtree will share multiple quotations for your project. You have the freedom to accept the quote that aligns with your project requirement and budget. You can get in touch with us in case you want to discuss the fee. Our T&C include a default confidentiality clause that protects your IP and NDA for added protection. Contact experts directly Speak directly with freelancers and explain your requirements. 100% satisfaction guaranteed You have to approve the deliverables only if quality meets your expectations. If you arn’t happy, we’ll refund your money. Project Management Keep track of files and conversations in the user-friendly Workspace. Flexible, secure payments You can choose to pay either a fixed or an hourly fee based on your requirement. Post your Project (Free) Your project details are safe, secure and visible only to logged-in users. Get Quotes & Choose Experts Discuss your requirements in detail with the experts before accepting the final statement of work from Kolabtree. Collaborate Pre-pay for your project and work with the expert to get your desired output. Keep track of files and conversations in the user-friendly Workspace. Job Done! Approve the deliverables once you're satisfied with the job done.
