Hire the best cybersecurity & data protection experts Work with top-quality freelance cybersecurity & data protection experts who will get your project done just right. IT Security, Policies, Procedures, and Compliance United States Offers consultations Database administration (DBA) +3More Cyber Security Projects and Technical Writing with 4 years' experience TOP LEVEL EXPERT, INFORMATION SECURITY CONSULTANT Cybersecurity consultation Cybersecurity compliance services The only impossible journey is the one you never begin +1More Computer Forensics Investigator Information Security Researcher Linux server administration +1More Pakistan Offers consultations Penetration Testing and Cyber security Expert +6More Enhance Your Network: Leverage Palo Alto, Fortinet, Mikrotik Firewall Egypt Offers consultations Cybersecurity consultation +1More +2More Linux Server Admin,SMTP Server,Mail Server,Mautic,Mailwizz,IT Expert Bangladesh Offers consultations Cybersecurity consultation Linux server administration Linux system administration +5More Website Developer and Computer Network Enginner Cybersecurity consultation Cybersecurity Expert and Technical Writing with 5 years' experience Cybersecurity consultation Cybersecurity compliance services +1More +2More ISO 27001 LI and Cyber Security Expert, MSc Information Security Similar professions to cybersecurity & data protection experts How to hire a cybersecurity & data protection expert in 2025? Hiring a cybersecurity & data protection expert can be easy if you know what to look for. Lear what a cybersecurity & data protection expert does, how much it costs to hire one, how long their projects take, and what questions to ask before hiring. What is a Cybersecurity and Data Protection Expert? A cybersecurity and data protection expert safeguards digital assets and sensitive information from unauthorized access, breaches and cyber threats. They assess vulnerabilities in systems and networks, implement security measures and develop policies and procedures to mitigate risks and ensure compliance with data protection regulations. Things a Cybersecurity and Data Protection Expert can do for you Support and IT: Implement IT security measures, monitor for suspicious activities, and respond to cyber threats Technical writing: Create cyber security and data protection documentation, such as security policies, procedures, incident response plans and best practice guidelines How much does it cost to hire a Cybersecurity and Data Protection Expert? Cybersecurity and data protection experts on Fiverr typically charge by the services they offer, with fees ranging from $22 to $30 per job. Support and IT jobs average $22 per job and technical writing jobs average $30.. Questions to ask when hiring a Cybersecurity and Data Protection Expert What experience do you have in cybersecurity and data protection? Can you give examples of specific projects where you successfully implemented security measures to mitigate risks and protect sensitive information? How do you stay updated with the latest cybersecurity threats, trends and technologies? What cybersecurity tools and technologies are you proficient in? How do you assess and prioritize cybersecurity risks within an organization? What methodologies or frameworks do you use to develop security strategies and policies? How much time does a Cybersecurity and Data Protection Expert take to complete a job on Fiverr? Depending on the project, cybersecurity and data protection experts on Fiverr take on average 1 to 12 days to complete a job, from the moment an order is placed until the time the order is delivered. Technical writing takes an average of 12 days to complete while IT support takes an average of 1 day. Some Fiverr sellers offer faster delivery times for an extra fee.
