Hire A Cybersecurity Analyst Hire an all-star cybersecurity analyst without writing the job description or paying any upfront fees Insight Global has a database full of superstar cybersecurity analysts ready to take their talents to your company. We help you build a pool of applicants, screen them, conduct interviews, and make a homerun hire. Questions? Call us toll-free: 855-485-8853 Connect With Cybersecurity Analysts Why We’re A Game Changer For Hiring Managers We’ve Created Thousands Of Job Descriptions For Cybersecurity Analysts – We Can Create Yours Too Don’t waste your time Googling “how to make job descriptions more appealing” or sifting through your company’s old job postings to hopefully find one that’s not more than a few years old. Our expert recruiters in the IT industry will write your description for you, optimizing it with the current best practices and your unique requirements. Gain Access To The Best Cybersecurity Analysts In The Market The Insight Global database has over 5 million pre-screened and qualified candidates – and that includes thousands of top-tier cybersecurity analysts with niche skill sets. You won’t find talent like this anywhere else. Advertise Your Opening For Free, On All The Major Job Board Sites Not only do we post your opening on our own job board, but also on all the popular sites like Indeed, Ziprecruiter, LinkedIn, etc. so you can expand your reach in the market and find the best candidates. You Don’t Pay Until You Make A Hire – And Only If You Make A Hire Other staffing companies and job board sites will charge you upfront fees or monthly subscriptions to promote your job opening. When you team up with Insight Global, you don’t pay anything until your candidate starts. Hire Your All-Star Cybersecurity Analyst In Record Time Get a curated list of screened candidates within 24-48 hours. Then, we’ll help you conduct interviews, narrow down your search, and hire your newest cybersecurity analyst. Partner With A Leading Staffing Agency You Can Trust We place over 50,000 consultants per year across various skill sets and industries. And those companies keep coming back to us for their staffing needs because we consistently bring them high-quality, top talent that they can’t find anywhere else. Our Process Here’s how we help you land your all-star cybersecurity analyst from the moment you hit “Submit” on our hiring form to their final day of onboarding. 01 Reach Out Submit a staffing request and tell us what you’re looking for. 02 Connect Your dedicated Hiring Partner reaches out to discuss your unique needs. 03 Review Candidates We search, screen, and share a curated list of the most qualified candidates. 04 Interview & Offer We’ll schedule or conduct interviews, and help you extend an offer. 05 Hire & Onboard Hire your perfect candidate and let us take care of the onboarding. Ready to Get Started? Fill out our request form and get a response from our team in as little as 20 minutes . See What Our Clients Have To Say Insight Global has been our key supplier of domestic talent for years. Now that we’re recruiting internationally, IG has done extraordinarily well. They’re fast, the candidate quality is outstanding, and the customer service is exceptional. While our partnership with IG is newer, we’ve had nothing but positive experiences. We’ve been able to operate transparently as partners & feel supported by IG. The IG team has acted quickly when needed & has remained flexible for us as our needs change. Insight Global is always in tune with my needs & works diligently to find the right candidates; not just a volume of candidates. Insight Global’s team aided in making a seemingly impossible task possible. They provided valuable insights in the conception & architecture of how we’d tackle a large hiring push & through close partnership, they pivoted & worked with us as needs changed. My contacts at Insight Global have been friendly, helpful & listen to our needs. They have been flexible & helpful when short timelines were provided them. The candidates provided were qualified & teachable. Insight Global has been great to work with–getting us qualified candidates SO quickly that have been perfect culture fits for our team. We tried to fill some of these positions on our own for months, & Insight Global helped us fill them in under a week! Looking for Regional Talent? Check Out Our Local Offices Here. Why We’re Your Partner for Success When you partner with us, you don’t just “work with a temp company.” You connect with a team of real people who are here to help guide you through your good days and bad. Whoever you are and wherever you come from, you matter to us and we have your back. FAQS What other areas of the IT industry do you help staff? What other areas of the IT industry do you help staff? Insight Global is a top IT staffing company that, in addition to Cybersecurity , also provides staffing solutions for Developers , Designers , Service Desk & Operations , Big Data , DevOps , Quality Assurance , AI , and Product/Program/Project Management . What kind of placements does Insight Global offer? What kind of placements does Insight Global offer? We offer contract, contract to permanent, and direct placement talent solutions. What types of companies does Insight Global work with? What types of companies does Insight Global work with? From Fortune 500s to startups across the country, we proudly partner with companies, departments, and teams of all sizes. How quickly can Insight Global staff my open position? Depending on interview availability and decision-making, we typically identify and screen candidates in 24-48 hours. Onboarding for consultant assignments takes as little as 1-3 days, but the typical timeframe for interviews, onboarding, and in the door working is 1-3 weeks. Does Insight Global staff remote/work-from-home jobs? Does Insight Global staff remote/work-from-home jobs? Yes! We offer contract, contract to permanent, and direct placement talent solutions for in-person, hybrid, or remote positions. Whether you’re a job seeker or hiring manager , we’re ready to help. Can Insight Global help a candidate get set up to work remotely? Can Insight Global help a candidate get set up to work remotely? Absolutely! Whether a candidate needs help connecting to your company’s VPN, getting access to their new devices, or understanding your company’s remote work policies, our team is more than happy to assist. What is Insight Global’s pricing structure? What is Insight Global’s pricing structure? We have flexible payment structures modeled to fit your unique hiring needs. We work backwards off of your allotted budget and find the best candidates to fit your salary requirements. There is no cost for our services until your hire has begun an assignment. Submit a request to our team , and we will provide you with a custom quote. Is Insight Global Better Business Bureau (BBB) Accredited? Yes! See our BBB rating and accreditation . Staffing Resource Center 40+ Crucial Cybersecurity Interview Questions By Need help interviewing your security candidates? To help you out, we’ve created a list of more than 40 cybersecurity questions to use in your next interview! 5 Expert Tips for Recruiting Cybersecurity Talent By If you’re struggling to find cybersecurity talent, it might be time to improve your recruiting strategy. Check out our 5 expert-approved recruiting tips! Cybersecurity Challenges for the Healthcare Industry By Healthcare continues to lean more and more into IT—but it’s posing an unfamiliar set of risks. This post explores those risks and top tips for boosting cybersecurity. Cybersecurity Engineer vs Analyst: What’s the Difference? By Both cybersecurity engineers and analysts are key to network and data security. But what exactly is the difference between the two? This post explores what separates engineer from analyst, and how they’re both vital to your cybersecurity teams. Are You A Cybersecurity Analyst? Are you a cybersecurity analyst looking for a job? You’re (almost) in the right place! Head over to the Insight Global job board to view all our current openings for security engineers. Get Started in 3 Easy Steps Submit a request Fill out the form below so we can get aligned on what type of position you need to fill and what type of hire it is. Chat with your hiring partner Within 48 hours of submitting a request, your dedicated hiring partner will reach out to make sure you two nail down all the details for your unique needs. Review hand-picked candidates A few days after your consultation, your hiring partner will get back to you with a curated & screened list of candidates for you to review. Hire A Cybersecurity Analyst Questions? Call us toll-free: 855-485-8853
