We help companies hire cybersecurity professionals for permanent or temporary roles who can help them protect critical assets, strengthen security postures, and mitigate cyber threats. Our cybersecurity staffing services connect you with highly qualified professionals who match the specific technical requirements of your role. With over 20 years of experience in technology staffing and an extensive network, we can fill the most critical cybersecurity positions. As demand for skilled cybersecurity talent continues to intensify, we are here to help you stay protected. Let’s connect and start building your cybersecurity team today! Are you a job seeker ? See our technology jobs here. Get Started Start your hiring journey — we’ll be in touch within 24 hours! Schedule Consultation Schedule a meeting with our team now to discuss your hiring goals! Hire cyber security experts with our dedicated team of recruiters who provide an efficient alternative to internal hiring. Our staffing services reduce time to hire by 40% and improve other key metrics like retention and long-term hiring costs. We have worked with businesses in various industries, including healthcare, finance, technology, manufacturing, and many more. Our cyber security staffing process is rigorous, utilizing outside assessments as well as identity verification tools to avoid risk and make cyber security placements that last. This vetting process, backed by our industry insight and diverse candidate network, ensures every candidate placed is ready to make a difference on day one. When you get started, you will be paired with a dedicated recruiter who will get to know your organization and role, and then start finding talent! Learn more about our process and benefits to cyber security recruitment below! Get in touch, and a recruiting leader will meet with you to assess your specific needs for our talent search to fill your open job opportunity. We market your job to multiple channels, our proprietary job board, engagement of our 1M+ candidate network, and manage the initial screening process. Once we narrow down candidates, we schedule interviews with your team and assist you and the job seeker until a placement is made. Access to high-quality candidates – Instantly tap into our 1.2 million–strong talent pool, including 70% passive candidates you won’t find on job boards. Shorter time to hire – With top talent ready and expert recruiters involved, you can make the right hire faster and stay competitive. Higher retention – Our placements reduce costly turnover. While the national average is 25%, our cyber security placement turnover rate is just 2%. Flexible hiring options – We handle permanent and temp roles, and additional admin support with onboarding, payroll, and more if needed. Cost-effectiveness – We help you avoid costly mis-hires by delivering guaranteed, high-performing talent that drives long-term value. Hunter Recruiting is rooted in the connections we’ve formed with clients and job seekers, establishing us as a national leader in workforce solutions. With decades of experience in technology staffing, we have built lasting partnerships with organizations and robust job seeker networks that enable us to understand their unique needs and fill tough, highly specialized roles. Here are some common specializations and jobs we have filled! See how Hunter Recruiting can make an impact on your business from hiring talent to providing strategic support! Our direct-hire staffing places top talent in your permanent role. Our temp staffing provides skilled talent for your short-term needs. We connect you with highly skilled & qualified executive talent. Get operational guidance to help manage your project efficiently. We streamline and optimize the management of your workforce. We are experienced in handling onboarding, payroll, benefits, & more. of tech candidates go through Hunter’s two-step quality screening process for technical skills Average time to fill from the time a job is posted until a candidate is placed into the role. of technology placements made by Hunter remains with their employer for 3+ years. Schedule a consultation to start your search with Hunter Recruiting Here’s the latest blogs to help you with your staffing and job search! Resources to help you land a new job, tips to advance your career and industry insight from our expert team – all sent to your inbox.
