Hire Experts with Our Cybersecurity Staffing Agency! We certify every candidate’s skills with CodeSignal to every candidate you meet is a 5-star recruit. “A Game-Changer in FinTech Hiring!” Trusted by Meet some of our top Internet Security Experts, ready to interview today! Meet Nasan, Cybersecurity Engineer Fairfield, IA 7 years in Cybersecurity Data Manipulation Elite Problem Solving Expert Recent Project Led a Red team operation for regional bank Conducted a Red team operation, resulting in fixing of two critical vulnerabilities that had the potential to compromise the organization’s external systems. Conducted threat hunting... Read More Meet Deep, Cybersecurity Engineer New York, NY 6 years in Cybersecurity Problem Solving Advanced Coding Fundamentals Elite Recent Project Led Nessus Security Center Vulnerability for Ally Responsible for daily Tenable Nessus Security Center Vulnerability Scans, and security findings, reports, web application scans, ad hoc scans, and SCAP Scans. Provided... Read More Meet Courtney, C++ Developer New York, NY 6 years in Cybersecurity Problem Solving Expert Coding Fundamentals Elite Recent Project C/C++ Software Developer with a focus in Cybersecurity My primary experience has been programming in C/C++ 11 and 14 including thread synchronization: multithreading, multi-processing, & concurrency. Read More Meet Curtis, Cybersecurity Engineer Charlotte, NC 6 years in Cybersecurity Data Manipulation Elite Problem Solving Expert Recent Project Information Security Engineer for Bank of America Cybersecurity professional with expertise in Vulnerability Management, Application Security Governance, and Risk Management. Skilled in identifying, assessing, and remediating... Read More How to Hire a Cybersecurity Expert with Techtrust We match you with pre-verified, and industry experienced cybersecurity engineers, ensuring your project's success from the start. Our process ensures that each candidate your team interviews has the skills, experience, and aptitude you expect! Our hiring best practices Our experts learn about your hiring needs. We create you a personalized hiring plan. We identify the best candidates from our list of certified talent & share their skill assessments. We support & guide you through interviewing, screening, and onboarding. Testimonials See What Others are Saying Don't worry you are in good company... A Game-Changer in FinTech Hiring! Their FinTech Talent Hub is a comprehensive catalogue of top technical talent. Techtrust has become our go-to partner in scaling our tech team. Sarah Director of Operations The Techtrust screening process saved me so much time because my hiring manager didn't make me take another series of technical tests. Eliza Apache Kafka Developer Our company has used multiple staffing agencies before, but the quality of candidates from Techtrust is simply unmatched. I wasn't interested in the first two roles they presented to me and it wasn't a problem. Techtrust worked with me until they found a job I loved. I've been there for months and am so happy. Techtrust saved us countless hours in the recruitment process. They brought us expert developers who were onboarded in no time. We needed a seasoned software architect and they delivered a perfect match, pre-vetted, in less than a week! The professionalism and work environment at Techtrust is so inclusive that it makes you feel very relaxed. I was hesitant about contract hires, but the professionals Techtrust provided seamlessly integrated into our team and contributed from day one. David Operations and Strategy Techtrust found the people we needed for a big data migration project. They not only met, but exceeded our expectations. Uttam Revenue Operations Manager Techtrust made the onboarding process seamless. I went from interview to started in 2 weeks. Techtrust provides tremendous on-job support and better benefits than any other consulting firm I’ve seen give its employees! Elisa Business Systems Analyst IV The transparency and communication from the Techtrust team are second to none. They've truly earned our trust for hiring technical talent. In the competitive FinTech landscape, having a partner like Techtrust has given us an edge in acquiring top talent, fast. Andrew Director of Implementation Every candidate Techtrust has recommended has been a strong match both in skillset and culture fit. They truly get our company's vision! Amy-Lynn Talent Acquisition I was blown away by how quickly Techtrust understood our tech needs and delivered. Their expertise in FinTech staffing is evident. Chris Director, Software Engineering Techtrust has revolutionized our hiring process. We no longer worry about finding the right IT professionals, we just call Techtrust. The Techtrust screening process saved me so much time because my hiring manager didn't make me take another series of technical tests. Kevin Apache Kafka Developer Hire the best Technical Talent in the US Specialized Industry Experience Industry experience means faster onboarding. Tested & Certified IT talent with the proven expertise your project needs. The best NYC & US based IT talent Hire remote or in-office talent. Frequently Asked Questions What skills are essential for a cybersecurity engineers? Essential skills for a cybersecurity engineer include a deep understanding of network security, proficiency in programming languages like Python, C++, and Java, and experience with security protocols and tools such as firewalls and intrusion detection systems. Additionally, knowledge of ethical hacking and a familiarity with regulatory compliance (e.g., GDPR, HIPAA) are highly valuable. How do I evaluate a cybersecurity engineer's expertise during an interview? To evaluate a cybersecurity engineer's expertise, ask detailed questions about their past security projects, including specific challenges they faced and how they overcame them. Techtrust will work with you to develop a custom live-coding assessment, including elements like a penetration testing exercise or a code review. What are the best practices for integrating a cybersecurity engineer into my team? Best practices for integrating a cybersecurity engineer into your team include providing thorough onboarding that covers your company’s specific security needs and protocols. Encourage collaboration between the cybersecurity developer and other IT staff to promote knowledge sharing and ensure security considerations are embedded in all tech-related projects. What is the average salary for a cybersecurity engineer? The average salary for a cybersecurity engineer varies based on their experience, location, and the specific security skills they possess. Generally, cybersecurity roles command higher salaries than many other tech positions due to the high demand and critical nature of security expertise. Reviewing salary surveys from reputable sources can provide up-to-date information on compensation trends.
