You guys know I’m a Canon girlie through and through, but that doesn’t mean I don’t spend my days pining over other brands and wondering what it would be like. There are moments when I’ve considered selling all of my Canon gear and converting, just to try something new and inspire myself in an exciting way. Shooting with new gear is a great way to prevent burnout, especially when photography is your full-time job, like mine. It’s been 13 years since I first started my business and decided to commit to it fully. There have been moments where I’ve wanted to give up. Moments where the hustle was just too much. But whenever I start considering other professions, they just don’t fulfill me in the way that photography does. Photography is my passion, my obsession and my true love. I’m about to head to the Bild Expo with B&H in New York City next week and I can’t wait to learn and experience everything new that’s going on in the photography industry. In the meantime, I wanted to share the cameras that have caught my eye this year and that I would recommend to photographers who want to enhance their photography game, so without further ado, here are the Top 10 Most Desired Digital Cameras of 2025 Under $2500 - The Best Mirrorless Cameras on the Market . (By using the affiliate links and/or codes in this blog post it supports Myles Katherine Photography. We may get a small kick back by you doing so.) 1. CANON EOS R6 MARK II I can’t help but start off with this camera, because, yes, it’s Canon. But I sit at home, hoping and praying that one of these will fall out of the sky and into my lap. I currently shoot with the Canon 5D Mark IV as my main camera, and the Canon EOS R as my backup camera. But I recently invested in the Canon RF 28-70 f/2 L USM lens ( I have a full blog post about this lens here) and the EOS R just isn’t up to par with what this lens is capable of. My plan is to upgrade to the Canon EOS R6 Mark II next year so hopefully I can make that happen! Or maybe I’ll get lucky and win the giveaway at the Bild Expo next week… Anyway. One of the main reasons I want this camera is for the in-body stabilization. The RF 28-70 f/2 lens does not have image stabilization so it would greatly improve my low-light images at weddings and events. It also has dual card slots, which is really important when doing client work. It’s always a risk going into a shoot with only one memory card. What I love about the Canon mirrorless cameras and the newer line of RF lenses is how incredibly sharp they are. I feel as though they are finally competing with Nikon and Sony when it comes to sharpness. It also has a full-frame sensor, 4K video at 60 fps, amazingly fast autofocus, long battery life, 24.2 MP images, a flip-out screen, and excellent low-light performance (ISO 100-102,400 expandable up to 204,800). Overall though, the main reason I love Canon so much is because of the natural color tone and beauty of the images. I find them to be moody, cinematic, and unique when compared to other brands. Canon definitely has their own “look”, which is why I’ve found it hard to switch to other brands. Another reason I love Canon is because I don’t find their cameras to be overpriced. For $2000 , it really is the best bang for your buck out of this list. WHERE TO BUY 2. SONY A7 IV Sony is really good at almost getting me to convert. Their cameras have excellent video, superbly sharp images, incredible full-frame sensors and super fast, reliable autofocus. The Sony A7 IV is a highly desired camera this year, especially for videographers who dabble in photography. The sensor is 33 MP full-frame which definitely beats out the other cameras on this list in that category. I also love how small the Sony cameras and lenses are because I definitely get tired of lugging Canon’s giant gear around. When it comes to video especially, smaller gear is important because you want your video to be smooth and stable. It’s very difficult to hold a Canon camera steady for a long period of time because they are so dang heavy. The only reason I didn’t switch to Sony is because of a deal-breaker for me - it doesn’t have an in-camera multiple exposure feature. For a lot of people, this is not an issue, but multiple exposures are a huge part of my photography style. Some other features of this camera include 4K video at 60 fps, in-body stabilization, and ISO 100-51200. I’d highly recommend this camera for videographers who want the possibility of stunning images as well. Sony truly produces amazingly sharp photos and video. For around $2500 , it’s one of the more expensive cameras in this group, but Sony does not disappoint. I feel like Nikon and Canon used to dominate the industry, but Sony has definitely made it’s way up the ladder and is battling for that top spot. WHERE TO BUY 3. NIKON Z6 MARK III Oh, Nikon. They are pretty much Canon’s main long-time rival and evil twin sister. Though, there’s really nothing evil about them, it’s just how I like to think of it. :) It’s just funny when I’m shooting at a wedding and someone is carrying a Nikon camera and says, “Oh, I see you shoot Canon.” It’s ridiculous, but it’s just the way it is! I have a Nikon film camera, the Nikon FE2 , that I’m absolutely obsessed with and take with me everywhere. I definitely have an affinity for Nikon’s old film cameras because they have super sharp old-school lenses. The Nikon Z6 Mark III is majorly competing with Sony right now when it comes to video, with this camera capable of 6K video up to 60 fps. It has a “partially stacked” 24.5 MP sensor, which allows for faster autofocus, file reading, and higher frame rates for video. This camera is known as sort of a “flagship” camera, one of the first of it’s kind in this category. It’s sort of hard to deny this camera, but for me it ultimately comes down to the images and the overall color tone, considering photography is my main “thing”. But if you are equal parts photographer and videographer, I’d go for this camera, for sure. It’s also an incredible deal for the price. This camera packs a punch and has a lot of fun creative options built into the camera, like a Rich Tone portrait mode and skin-softening. If I had started off with Nikon and that was my shtick, I’d be freaking out over this camera. For around $2100 , I truly can’t believe how affordable this camera is for what you get. WHERE TO BUY 4. PANASONIC LUMIX S5 II I’m not sure why this camera keeps calling my name, but I’m desperate to have one on my shelf at some point. When I was deciding whether to upgrade to the Canon 5D Mark IV or entirely switch my gear over to a different brand, something about the Panasonic Lumix cameras caught my eye. I was looking at the Lumix S1 at the time, but the short battery life ultimately turned me off from it. But the Panasonic Lumix S5 II has definitely improved upon that, and more! This camera boasts a 24 MP full-frame sensor, phase-detect AF (for the first time with their Lumix line), highly-regarded in-body image stabilization and up to 6K video at 30 fps. The main reason I’m drawn to this camera is the in-body image stabilization because it’s known to be one of the best. Plus, this camera is more affordable than some of the other options at ~$1700 . I also just love the look of it and find it to be much more attractive than Nikon cameras… sorry… WHERE TO BUY 5. FUJIFILM X-H2S Ugh, I’ve ALWAYS wanted a Fujifilm camera! The Fujifilm X-H2S does not have a full-frame sensor but it still packs a powerful punch with it’s APS-C sensor. The video is known for being incredible, with fast autofocus and subject-tracking. If I was a videographer, I’d have a hard time deciding between this camera, the Sony A7 IV and the Nikon Z6 III. I actually love the way the Fujifilm images look because I find them to have a bit of a film-like quality, with a cinematic feel and unique color experience. If I had endless funds, I’d purchase this one just to have fun with. It has 6.2K video recording and has better low-light performance than previous models by Fujifilm. It also has dual memory card slots, one of those “magical stacked sensors” and film-simulation modes (which I would definitely have tons of fun with). Overall, I find the images and video to be the most unique with this camera, so if you want to stand out and offer something different than the norm, this is a great option. At around $2500 it offers a lot and truly can stand up to the others in its category, even with an APS-C sensor. WHERE TO BUY 6. SONY A6700 If you’re working with a lower price point but you still want incredible videos and photos, the Sony A6700 is a great place to start at around $1400 . Just because it’s cheaper though doesn’t mean you can’t create incredible work with this camera. It has a 26 MP APS-C sensor, 4K video at 120 fps (let’s be real, who needs 6K video anyway) and is incredibly compact for what it offers. I’m always down for a tiny camera. Sometimes the more expensive cameras get so much hype, but for the average photographer/videographer this camera does just fine. If you’re good at what you do, you can definitely achieve amazing things with this camera. This camera is coveted by content creators for it’s price point and versatility, with a flip-out screen, mic inputs, and image stabilization. If you consider yourself a video/photo hybrid creator, this is a great option for you at a low price point. WHERE TO BUY 7. CANON EOS R8 The Canon EOS R8 is another budget option that stands out in its class. If you aren’t willing to shell out $2000 for the Canon EOS R6 II, this one won’t disappoint. This camera actually has the same full-frame sensor as the R6 II but does not have in-body stabilization. It’s really just a budget version of the R6 II. If you’re already shooting with a camera that doesn’t have in-body stabilization, then you probably won’t miss it much. But once you get used to shooting with IBIS, it’s super hard to go back. What’s great about this camera is that it’s super lightweight and perfect for traveling, which is a feature I’m always on the hunt for. It reminds me of the Canon 6D Mark II which is a DSLR but is budget-friendly and still capable of incredible images. If you’re photography-focused and working within a specific budget, this is the camera I’d recommend. It currently retails for about $1300 . WHERE TO BUY 8. FUJIFILM X-S20 Since I’m on a roll with budget-friendly options, the Fujifilm X-S20 is the low cost version of the Fujifilm X-H2S I mentioned earlier. For ~$1200 you can still get 6.2K video at 30 fps and a 26.1 MP APS-C sensor. It’s known for it’s small body and 5-axis in-body image stabilization. You get a LOT for the price point, including the fun film-simulation options that Fujifilm is known for and the high-end video capabilities. It’s great for content creators because of the dedicated Vlog mode and touchscreen. It’s a great place to start your business if you’re video or content focused but still want the option of taking photos that are unique and film-like. Honestly, I’ve been considering investing in one of these just because it is somewhat affordable and I really want to spend some time messing with those film-simulation modes. I always prefer film photography over digital when possible, so it would be nice to avoid the expenses of shooting film. WHERE TO BUY 9. CANON EOS RP Ok, I couldn’t help but include one more Canon camera, just because a lot of people ask me which Canon cameras are good for beginners. The Canon EOS RP is a great mirrorless camera and only costs around $800 . Since it’s an RF mount, you can use the RF lenses which are a newer line of Canon lenses and are much sharper than the EF lenses. If you’re working with a budget, the Canon RF 50 mm f/1.8 STM lens is a great place to start for only $200 . If you have the dough for it though, I’d recommend the Canon RF 50 mm 1.4 L VCM lens at $1400 . With Canon lenses, the more you’re able and willing to spend, the more it will pay off. With the Canon RP though, it’s kind of insane that at this price point you get a 26.2 MP full-frame sensor and 4K video. It’s also super small and great for travel, along with WiFi, bluetooth and an ISO range from 100-40,000. It’s crazy to think you can get all of this for $800 these days. When I first started getting into photography, I paid quite a high price for the Canon 5D Mark II which only had a 21.1 MP sensor, 1080p video, and an ISO range of only 100-6400. WHERE TO BUY 10. LEICA SL2-S I know this camera doesn’t fall under $2500, but a girl can dream, right? Leica is really considered more of a luxury brand, and you don’t necessarily get a whole lot more for the price, other than bragging rights. It includes a 24 MP full frame sensor, 4K video at 60 fps, in-body image stabilization and incredible lens options. The Leica SL2-S is around $4800 and is one of the cheaper, more affordable options from their camera line. The expensive lenses amp the price up even more. But if money is no object and you want the best of the best, these cameras are highly coveted and will awe your friends and family. They are beautifully designed and are crafted for photographers who cherish their cameras and value the history behind photography. Leica created the very first 35 mm film camera in the 1920s and is known for their minimalist designs and attention to detail. Think of this as the Porsche version of a camera. Maybe one day you’ll see one of these sitting on my shelf…. one can only dream… WHERE TO BUY If you found this post helpful or inspiring, I’d love it if you considered signing up for my Patreon ! For as little as $1 a month, you’ll get early access to all of my YouTube videos , plus tons of photos that I don’t post anywhere else. Depending on which tier you choose, you could also receive seasonal prints and/or discounts! I always use all of the proceeds towards cameras, film & processing. If you have any questions, I’m always happy to help! You can contact me here , or leave a comment below! Thanks so much for stopping by! You can also check out my B&H Photo storefront & Amazon Storefront for more camera/film recommendations. :) Have a magical day! <3 Myles Katherine
