Which cloud computing companies offer superior services? See our list of 2024’s top cloud providers. The top cloud computing companies provide enterprises with the flexible, scalable, and resilient infrastructure they need for streamlined operations and optimal performance. Cloud service providers can help businesses of all sizes overcome the limitations of traditional physical infrastructure while filling in gaps and avoiding costly downtime. In a rapidly evolving cloud computing environment marked by a surge in innovative applications, tools, and services, selecting the right cloud service provider can be a complex task. We evaluated the top cloud computing companies to see how they compared. Here are our picks for top cloud service providers for 2024. The following chart showcases how the top 15 cloud service providers compare on services, data storage, scalability, security and compliance, and pricing. Compute Services Data Storage Scalability Security and Compliance Pricing Amazon Web Services (AWS) High performance compute infrastructure with 750+ instances Object storage without upfront investments Highly scalable solutions 143 security standards and compliance certifications Microsoft Azure IaaS, PaaS, FaaS and serverless computing Block and object storage Autoscale features 100+ compliance certifications specific to global regions Atlantic.Net Reliable VPS, cloud, and dedicated compute with guaranteed uptime SSD storage with daily backups VPS and cloud plans scale from entry-level to enterprise HIPAA, HITECH, SOC 2, SOC 3 certifications; 100% uptime SLA Salesforce Pre-built connectors for data integrations Open and extensible data platform Starter, Professional, Enterprise, and Unlimited Plans VMWare Edge compute stack with flexible infrastructure Cloud Flex Storage with elastic capacity Customized capacity to meet unexpected spikes in demand Internationally recognized ISO standards Customized quotes with on-demand or hourly pricing structure Alibaba Cloud Elastic compute Service Autoscaling and auto-provisioning features 250+ threat detection models Oracle Fast and flexible computing capacity Horizontal and vertical scaling capacity Granular encryption and snapshot replication Customized pricing plans Rackspace Cloud servers and cloud images for computing Dedicated data storage servers with always-on support Rackspace Auto-scale for user-defined needs Comprehensive compliance and security certifications Customized pricing plans DigitalOcean Spaces object and block storage Automated scaling for dynamic allocation of resources Globally recognized information security controls Monthly caps and flat pricing model ServiceNow IaaS and SaaS solutions CMDB workspace for detailed monitoring Instance scalability Stringent industry certifications Custom quotes and scalable packages NetApp Automated cloud infrastructure Enterprise-grade data and file services Agile and dynamic scaling Intelligent governance and compliance Customized pricing plans Google Cloud Application modernization and smart analytics Automatic storage class transitions Intel-driven security options with AI-infused technology CloudSigma IBM Cloud Combined PaaS and IaaS solutions Maximum flexibility to scale up and down with business requirements Best-in-industry security standards with automatic security checks Cisco Cloud Solutions Intelligent automated storage solutions with optimized infrastructure resources On-demand infrastructure with unified workload control Unified, end-to-end protection with AI-powered security Customized pricing plans Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Dynamic storage provisioning Flexible and scalable AI-enabled applications Integrated built-in security capabilities using DevSecOps Best for Public Cloud Cloud Services Offered: Cloud compute service, elastic compute cloud, public cloud space Amazon Web Services is a leading cloud service provider that offers over 200 fully-feature services for enterprises of all scales and sizes. It has unmatched experience and expertise in the cloud landscape and millions of active customers globally. Visit Amazon Web Services Amazon Web Services is highly preferred for its wide range of services and its flexible and scalable infrastructure. It is a customer-centric company that focuses on building inclusive technologies with deep functionality. AWS has millions of active customers across every industry and has been delivering cloud services for over 17 years. Use the AWS Pricing Calculator for detailed pricing structure. Pros Cons User-friendly interface Frequent downtime due to heavy traffic Easy migration process Issues in automatic storage scaling Best for Developer Solutions Cloud Services Offered: Public cloud space, secure cloud storage, open cloud platform Microsoft Azure has a diverse portfolio of products and services suitable for developing and managing simple web apps and complex cloud applications. It delivers intelligent solutions across multiple clouds supporting different technical frameworks. Although AWS has an extensive range of products and services, Microsoft Azure is more cost-effective and offers the most comprehensive compliance coverage. Visit Microsoft Azure Microsoft Azure is a leading cloud platform that supports open-source technologies for faster innovation and enhanced collaboration. Azure’s comprehensive compliance coverage reflects its uncompromising commitment to privacy. 95 percent of Fortune 500 companies trust Azure for its industry-leading AI and cloud-scale data solutions, and it is highly cost-effective to help maximize the return on cloud investments. Use the Azure pricing calculator for customized plans. Pros Cons Highly configurable and easy-to-use solutions Complex pricing models Powerful DevOps tools Better technical support required Best for Security & Compliance Cloud Services Offered: VPS hosting, HIPAA-compliant cloud, dedicated servers, managed security Atlantic.Net distinguishes itself by offering compliance-ready cloud hosting with HIPAA, HITECH, SOC 2, and SOC 3 certifications. It is especially well-suited for healthcare, biotech, and other regulated industries where uptime and data security are non-negotiable. Unlike hyperscale providers, Atlantic.Net focuses on delivering high-touch support alongside enterprise-grade infrastructure. Visit Atlantic.Net Atlantic.Net makes the cut for its blend of regulatory compliance and reliability at competitive pricing. Its 100% uptime SLA and daily backups ensure mission-critical systems remain available. For small to mid-sized enterprises, particularly those handling sensitive information, Atlantic.Net provides a balance of scalability, affordability, and peace of mind that larger providers often reserve for premium tiers. Pros Cons HIPAA, HITECH, SOC 2 & SOC 3 compliance included No entry-level shared hosting 100% uptime SLA with global data centers More technical setup than beginner-friendly platforms Seven data centers across the U.S., U.K., Canada, and Singapore Best for CRM Solutions Cloud Services Offered: Sales Cloud, Marketing Cloud, Service Cloud Salesforce is highly preferred for its CRM solutions and cloud-based software, and Gartner has recognized Salesforce as a leader in multichannel marketing hubs in the 2023 Magic Quadrant. The company caters best to businesses that want to streamline their sales functions—the complete business ecosystem helps personalize customer journeys across every touchpoint. Although Amazon and Azure are vast platforms, Salesforce excels in providing high-end customization options. Visit Salesforce Gartner has recognized Salesforce as a leader in Customer Data Platforms, and it is used by more than 1.5 million businesses worldwide. Salesforce is thus a top cloud company that offers tailored solutions for businesses across all industry verticals. Pros Cons Powerful reporting features Expensive Easy integration across multiple platforms Frequent technical glitches Best for Multi-Cloud Services Cloud Services Offered: Multi-cloud services, cross-cloud services VMWare offers cloud infrastructure and platform services for multi-cloud businesses and provides a consistent environment for accelerating modern app operations and modernizing data centers. VMWare offers a wide array of virtualization features, including a robust data center that eases cloud migration and accelerates networking. Broadcom acquired VMWare in November 2023. Visit VMWare VMWare helps businesses with multiple paths to the cloud. Its powerful infrastructure simplifies data management and allows secure and efficient cloud operations. VMWare made the list for its rich capabilities across all cloud environments, rapid migration, and low costs. Contact the VMWare sales team for detailed pricing structures. Pros Cons Easy integration with major hyperscale cloud solutions Steep learning curve All-in-one package for cloud infrastructure solutions Needs better documentation and training materials Best for Elastic Computing Cloud Services Offered: Elastic compute service, CloudBox, Compute Nest, public cloud solutions Alibaba Cloud offers a suite of services designed specifically to help businesses with secure cloud computing and data processing. Its intelligence-driven cloud solutions can accelerate digital innovations and business growth significantly. The company has exhibited exceptional growth in the last few years and offers different strategic mechanisms for data backups. Alibaba Cloud offers better pricing plans compared to VMWare. Visit Alibaba Cloud Alibaba Cloud operates across more than 200 countries and regions and has more than three million customers. It has been recognized as the leading cloud service provider in the Asia Pacific, and is favored for its intelligence-driven, easy-to-use cloud services. Pros Cons Robust security measures Needs more advanced features Seamless user experience Better support system required Best for Data Management Cloud Services Offered: Cloud infrastructure, SaaS applications, on-premises cloud solutions Oracle Cloud offers complete cloud services, including multi-cloud, private, public, and hybrid cloud solutions. It also supports open-source frameworks and tools for developing cloud-native applications. While many cloud companies—including AWS, Microsoft Azure, and VMware—offer different pricing plans across different regions, Oracle Cloud Solutions has a consistent pricing structure. Visit Oracle Cloud Gartner has recognized Oracle as a leader in Strategic Cloud Platform Services in the 2023 Magic Quadrant. Oracle Cloud’s global presence also makes it a top choice, as it offers 47 public cloud regions across 23 countries, enabling it to meet business needs with continued innovation and a consistent growth strategy. Use Oracle’s Cloud Cost Estimator for more detailed pricing. Pros Cons User-friendly virtualization environment Additional functionalities can be included Highly scalable and efficient Better documentation and support Best for Cloud Optimization Cloud Services Offered: Cloud infrastructure solutions, custom cloud services Rackspace offers effective multi-cloud strategies with expertise across different industry verticals, supporting end-to-end cloud transformation along with powerful application management services. Although Rackspace works toward optimizing cost and performance, it has complex pricing structures compared to VMWare and Salesforce, and customer service and support scores are low. Visit Rackspace Rackspace combines world-class processes and technologies for modernizing business cloud infrastructure. It has a robust portfolio of cloud solutions that can easily operate across multiple cloud environments. With a decade of expertise in edge computing technologies, Rackspace continues to support a huge number of businesses in their cloud transformation journey. Contact Rackspace for pricing details. Pros Cons Process-oriented approach Frequent outages and slowdowns Continual IT innovation Poor customer service Best for Web Applications Cloud Services Offered: Developer cloud solutions DigitalOcean is primarily known for its cloud hosting services. Its robust infrastructure speeds up application development and cloud computing, and DigitalOcean has business-ready cloud solutions for virtual machines, Kubernetes, database management, object storage, and more. However, it lacks a strong global presence compared to Oracle, VMWare, or Salesforce. Visit DigitalOcean Digital Ocean is chosen by leading businesses for its simple and cost-effective cloud hosting services. Its business-ready cloud solutions easily cater to the needs of ISVs and startups. Digital Ocean has more than half a million customers and is top in IaaS usability. Contact the Digital Ocean sales team for pricing details. Pros Cons Fully managed solutions Steep learning curve and unclear documentation Simple and intuitive user experience Limited customer support Best for Enterprise Automation Cloud Services Offered: Cloud management, hybrid cloud services, cloud computing ServiceNow helps businesses with workflow automation across a single platform, eliminating organizational silos and creating simpler employee and customer experiences. ServiceNow has a robust feature set that helps businesses accelerate digital transformation, but integration is more challenging than with AWS or Azure. Visit ServiceNow ServiceNow follows a one architecture, one data model that makes it easier for businesses to digitize tasks efficiently. Around 85 percent of Fortune 500 companies use this cloud platform, and Forrester recognized ServiceNow as a leader in IT credibility and Widespread Automation. Contact ServiceNow for more pricing details. Pros Cons Seamless integration across different platforms Complex customizations Unified view of operations and processes Difficult to set up Best for Data Intelligence Cloud Services Offered: Hybrid cloud solutions, simplified cloud management NetApp offers a wide range of cloud services for optimizing business infrastructure and leading storage options for enterprise data needs. NetApp helps businesses tackle multi-cloud complexities with highly available cloud applications. Compared to other cloud companies like ServiceNow and DigitalOcean, NetApp is largely preferred for its scalable storage services. Visit NetApp NetApp offers businesses full visibility and intelligent automation, eliminating the complexities associated with cloud management services. Its industry-leading storage operating system is available in leading clouds, making it easier for businesses to migrate existing infrastructures. NetApp caters to the needs of both large enterprises as well as small startups. Contact the NetApp sales team for customized pricing plans. Pros Cons Highly scalable infrastructure Complex setup process Innovative hybrid storage space Better pricing range Best for Cloud Computing Cloud Services Offered: Cloud computing and storage, hybrid and multi-cloud infrastructure Google Cloud helps businesses modernize their existing infrastructure with enterprise-ready generative AI solutions. Its built-in security capabilities help maintain digital sovereignty and proactively mitigate risks. Google Cloud can run data anywhere, and offers a consistent platform with a scalable software delivery pipeline for accelerated application delivery. Google Cloud has a diverse portfolio of pre-configured, interactive solutions that make it easier to reimagine business operations and optimize costs. Visit Google Cloud Google Cloud leverages the power of AI and machine learning to develop intelligent solutions. It has an extensive client base because of its optimal architectures, and more than 70 percent of AI companies drove constant innovations using Google Cloud solutions. Google Cloud relevant experience and tools help it keep evolving with the changing technology landscape. Use the Google Pricing Calculator for detailed pricing plans. Pros Cons Developer friendly platform Limited technical support for integration and deployment Highly flexible, scalable and robust infrastructure Documentation can be better Best for Cloud Hosting Cloud Services Offered: End-to-end cloud solutions, DRaaS, backup and migration CloudSigma helps businesses with hybrid cloud services, customizable computing and storage, along with effortless deployment solutions. Equipped with useful plugins and tools, this cloud platform efficiently caters to multiple business use cases. CloudSigma’s powerful hybrid technology brings immense value to businesses by helping them expand their product portfolio. Visit CloudSigma CloudSigma is a leading cloud service provider that believes in sharing costs and revenue with its clients. Its turnkey software platform assures rapid time to develop, deploy, and market cloud services with minimal upfront capital expenditure. It has a strong global network with numerous successful business partners, creating a solid foundational support and quality guarantee. Contact the CloudSigma sales team for a detailed pricing structure Pros Cons Top-tier service quality with SLA and direct support Frequent performance issues Zero execution risk Inconsistent subscription billing Best for Integrated Cloud Experience Cloud Services Offered: Cloud cost management, IT modernization, edge computing, backup and recovery Top industry leaders trust IBM Cloud, as it fosters technological and infrastructural growth that assures cost-effective performance. Its AIOps solutions deliver exceptional results and the right business outcomes, enhancing overall customer experiences. The platform uses intelligent automation to create tailored action plans and fuel business transformation. Visit IBM Cloud IBM Cloud is a top enterprise cloud platform that delivers value for diverse industry needs. It has a strong technology partner ecosystem with strong business domain expertise. IBM Cloud is powered by the latest AI innovations that help their clients automate, predict, and modernize their business workflows. It can be deployed across multiple clouds like Azure, Google Cloud, AWS, and more, ensuring smooth migration. Pros Cons Highly available and flexible cloud platform with very fast performance Complexities in file management Easy deployment with centralized management features Cannot smoothly integrate with other major cloud services Best for Hybrid Cloud Strategy Cloud Services Offered: Cloud security, networking solutions, app and workload management Cisco Cloud Solutions is a unified cloud platform that offers a wide range of services for networking, operations, end-to-end security, and optimized application experience. It automates the workload placement with emerging technologies and advanced services, simplifying cloud adoption. Cisco also offers expert guidance for cloud-agnostic multi-cloud strategies to meet specific business needs. Visit Cisco Cloud Solutions Cisco Cloud Solutions helps accelerate digital businesses and optimize workload resources across on-premises, public cloud, and edge infrastructure. It has built-in protection features that reduce risks and close gaps to enhance business security posture. It also supports multi-cloud connectivity and ensures an optimized application experience, making it a top choice for cloud services. Connect with a Cisco sales expert to get estimates and explore all buying options. Pros Cons Best for enterprise workloads Lacks a transparent pricing structure User-friendly applications with improved connectivity Setup requires expert guidance and training Best for Edge Architectures Cloud Services Offered: Enterprise-wide automation, hybrid cloud innovation, edge computing Red Hat Cloud helps businesses with a robust hybrid cloud infrastructure with enterprise-grade security and compliance. Its open-development model paves the way for better innovations. Red Hat Cloud infrastructures are mostly Linux-based, and can efficiently handle business-critical tasks to help enterprises easily deliver cloud-native applications at reduced operational costs and complexities. Visit Red Hat Cloud Red Hat Cloud has a rich portfolio of managed cloud services that help businesses refocus on innovation and increase operational efficiency. These solutions can seamlessly integrate with major cloud services like AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud. About 90 percent of the Fortune 500 companies use Red Hat solutions. Contact the Red Hat Sales team for detailed plans. Pros Cons Easy integration with existing business infrastructure Better Network virtualization resources required Responsive support team Needs stable updates Cloud computing companies provide a wide range of products and services, but generally, they can all be categorized as one of three types of major cloud service offerings: Each model presents unique advantages and limitations. SaaS is well-regarded for its ease of use but may lack customization options, while PaaS offers greater control for development but requires technical expertise. IaaS provides the most flexibility, but requires comprehensive management of IT resources. When evaluating cloud service providers, there are a number of criteria to consider. Compute capabilities are the backbone of cloud services and determine how effectively a business can operate, innovate, and scale in the cloud. Assess the provider’s virtualization and automation features and consider the suitability of different cloud deployment models (private, public, hybrid) for your business needs. The trend toward multi-cloud strategies also warrants attention for enhanced flexibility and risk mitigation. Efficient and secure data storage is essential for modern enterprises with vast, growing data estates. Evaluate the provider’s storage solutions, focusing on capacity, scalability, backup, disaster recovery, and file-sharing functionalities. Cloud providers must offer scalable solutions that adapt to your business’s evolving demands. For example, automated scaling features will allow for seamless adjustment of resources in response to changing needs. With increasing cyber threats, robust security protocols are non-negotiable. Make sure to examine the provider’s security measures, compliance standards, and data management policies, and ensure they align with your company’s risk profile and regulatory requirements. Providers like Atlantic.Net differentiate by building compliance directly into their infrastructure, offering HIPAA- and SOC-certified hosting environments. Assess the provider’s track record for uptime and performance. Service level agreements (SLAs) are critical documents that outline service expectations, deliverables, and performance metrics—ensure the vendor’s SLAs match your enterprise’s requirements and offer recourse for service disruptions. Selecting a cloud service provider involves more than just comparing prices and features. It’s about finding a partner that aligns with your business’s specific needs and goals. Here are the key considerations to keep in mind: To evaluate cloud computing companies, we scored each provider against key criteria that matter the most for businesses and ranked them against the aggregated scores. We scored providers on their pricing structures and whether they offered free tiers. Those offering competitive rates with transparent billing received higher scores, reflecting their appeal to cost-conscious businesses. We rated providers on how easily their services can be integrated into existing systems. Providers with user-friendly integration processes, minimal downtime, and clear guidelines scored higher. We also focused on the breadth and depth of the features offered by providers. Those offering a wide range of useful, innovative features that cater to diverse business needs received higher scores. Our focus was on tangible benefits. Providers with a track record of boosting business efficiency and growth, as evidenced by customer success stories, ranked higher. This score reflects the provider’s commitment to customer service. We looked at how quickly and effectively they respond to and resolve issues, with higher scores for those demonstrating exceptional support. Cloud companies deliver remote computing services so businesses don’t need to maintain physical data centers, servers, and networks. Instead, they can access the cloud environment and other technology services as needed. Different cloud computing models—IaaS, PaaS, SaaS, and serverless computing, for example—help accomplish different business goals. The complete cloud infrastructure demands heavy investments and maintenance if developed from scratch. It is relatively more straightforward to migrate into the cloud with the help of cloud service providers without additional IT-related capital expenditure. Cloud service providers can bring flexibility and scalability, efficient collaboration, effective data storage, and better resource management to enterprises. Public cloud resources are delivered by third-party cloud service providers, and offer nearly unlimited scalability. Private cloud solutions are specific to an organization—they are solely dedicated to a business and maintained on a private network, offering higher levels of control and privacy. Hybrid cloud solutions are a combination offering greater operational flexibility to easily cater to fluctuating computing and processing demands and handle overflow. Selecting a cloud service provider is more than a technical upgrade; it’s a strategic business move. The key lies in choosing a provider that aligns with your specific needs and future goals. Ground your decision in a thorough analysis of tangible benefits like cost savings and efficiency gains and intangible ones such as provider reliability and potential for long-term partnership. Also consider your future business needs and how a cloud provider can help meet them in partnership with you. Since a cloud service provider engagement is a long-term commitment, evaluate all crucial aspects carefully and zero in on the best suitable option. While this buyer’s guide provides a high-level look at the best cloud service providers for a wide range of enterprise needs, many technology purchase decisions come down to pricing. Read our Cloud Computing Cost Comparison and Pricing Guide to learn more about how providers charge for their products and services and what you can expect to pay. Kashyap is a contributing writer to Datamation. He covers a range of technical topics, including managed services, cloud computing, security, storage, business management, and product design and development. Kashyap holds a Master's Degree in Engineering and finds joy in traveling, exploring new cultures, and immersing himself in Indian classical and Sufi music. Datamation is the leading industry resource for B2B data professionals and technology buyers. Datamation's focus is on providing insight into the latest trends and innovation in AI, data security, big data, and more, along with in-depth product recommendations and comparisons. More than 1.7M users gain insight and guidance from Datamation every year. Property of TechnologyAdvice. © 2025 TechnologyAdvice. All Rights Reserved Advertiser Disclosure: Some of the products that appear on this site are from companies from which TechnologyAdvice receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site including, for example, the order in which they appear. TechnologyAdvice does not include all companies or all types of products available in the marketplace.
