Travel Insurance Quotes are not available for risks located in AK, FL, HI and LA. Pet insurance is offered by our trusted partner, PTZ Insurance Agency, Ltd through its ASPCA ® Pet Health Insurance program via InsuraMatch, LLC, a Travelers-owned insurance agency. InsuraMatch Motorcycle insurance is offered by our trusted partner, Dairyland ® , through InsuraMatch, LLC, a Travelers-owned insurance agency. InsuraMatch Flood insurance is offered by our trusted partner, Neptune Flood, through InsuraMatch, LLC, a Travelers-owned insurance agency. InsuraMatch Plan your trip with confidence Traveling can be an adventure. Travel protection is coverage that can help protect you from losses and unexpected events that occur when you’re traveling. Benefits can include trip cancellation, medical expenses, and coverage for baggage and personal effects. Travel protection can be a beneficial way to help guard against costly disruptions to your travel plans. Not sure about how to purchase travel protection? Start by considering the details of your trip and what’s most important to you when you travel. Travel Insured International offers a variety of benefits under their single-trip and multi-trip travel protection plans. U.S. Residents can purchase a plan for any trip, for travel from the U.S. to anywhere in the world. **See Travel Protection details below. Tips to help you get started Consider your risks to determine the corresponding travel protection you might need. Travel protection plan options Choose from three levels of single-trip plans or an annual plan. To protect your trip investment, consider adding the optional Cancel or Interruption for Any Reason bundle for coverage beyond standard benefits. For maximum protection, purchase travel protection within 14 or 21 days of your initial trip payment (depending on your plan) to qualify for time-sensitive benefits like Cancel for Any Reason and the Pre-Existing Condition Exclusion Waiver. Manage your plan details online It's quick and easy to create your own Travel Insured account. There, you'll have 24/7 access to all your trip details, plan documents and claim information. Change your travel dates Modify trip cost Share trip details File claims, and more Related products Car insurance Get protection that can give you peace of mind when you're on the road. Umbrella insurance This liability coverage may go above and beyond your car and home insurance policies to help protect you from unexpected events. Jewelry & valuable items coverage From jewelry to collectibles, you may have more valuables than you realize. And your home insurance policy may not provide the coverage you need. Prepare & Prevent Insights to help you manage risks at home and on the road Travel Resources When Should I Purchase Travel Insurance? Booking travel insurance ahead of time is crucial to kick off your trip. Read on to learn more about when you should consider purchasing travel insurance. Travel Resources A Guide to Renewing Your U.S. Passport Renewing your passport can be a daunting task. Unsure where to start? Learn how to renew your passport with this helpful guide. Home Safety 6 Essential Travel Tips Planning a vacation? These travel safety tips, from knowing your surroundings to keeping copies of your ID, can help you have a fun and safe trip.
