Summer is officially here, and with it, endless potential to host the soiree of your dreams. While classic backyard barbecues, whimsical midsummer parties, and elevated alfresco gatherings are common themes this time of year, there’s always the option to think more creatively to host a curated event that guests will remember long after last call. An easy way to get the ball rolling is to brush up on the top hosting trends of 2025. To help you do so, we chatted with some of the industry’s top event planners to uncover the details that make any party stand out. “This year, it’s less about showing off and more about creating a sense of ease,” says Beth Helmstetter , founder and creative director of Beth Helmstetter Events . “The best events feel intentional, beautiful, and personal.” Another way to look at it? Through the attendees’ eyes. “What are your guests going to remember? Hosts want their guests to be comfortable, to be entertained, and to be taken care of,” says celebrity party planner Mindy Weiss , founder of Mindy Weiss Party Consultants . Ahead, peruse 25 hosting trends bound to make your special event that much more memorable. Jump to: A Focus on Storytelling Customized Menu and Paper Suites Neo-Pastel Palettes with Saturated Accents A Full Drip Color Story Bold Color Mixes A Moment for Chartreuse Creating a Home Away from Home Mismatched Glassware Layered Tablescapes Garden-Inspired Florals Food as Decor Hand-Drawn Dinner Party Lighting That Sets the Mood Florals as Architecture Ribbons (Within Reason) Dramatic Draping Fluid, Interactive Dining Nostalgic Desserts Lounge-Style Seating Elevated Cocktail Hours Botanical Cocktails and Garnish Bars Charismatic Bartenders Hyper-Personalized Guest Touchpoints Interactive Guest Experiences An After-Party Event A Focus on Storytelling What story do you want your event to tell? “This year, it’s not just about beautiful design, it’s about meaning,” says Estera Events Co-Owner and Lead Planner Erica Vanco. “From invitations to tablescapes, hosts are weaving in personal narratives that connect guests to place, memory, or culture. Whether it's referencing a childhood dish, using heirloom decor for the tablescape, or naming cocktails after shared moments, storytelling transforms an event from stylish to deeply personal.” Customized Menu and Paper Suites A memorable way to set the tone for your party is with interactive paper suites, encompassing everything from the invitation and RSVP card to the name care and menu. “We love to enhance guest experience with our paper suites,” says Holloway Events Founder and Lead Designer Cathleen Holloway. “A gorgeous color palette with custom shapes previewing the amazing night ahead. Once, we created an interactive oyster plate menu for each wedding guest, which doubled as a placecard as well. Behind each oyster, [we] listed out each course. Guests are still talking about it to this day!” Neo-Pastel Palettes with Saturated Accents When it comes to the color story of your event, you have a few options. Up first, we have modern pastels with a pop of vibrant color. “Gone are the saccharine pastels of the past; 2025 sees the rise of sophisticated, dusty pastels grounded by bold, unexpected accent colors,” says Lara Mahler, founder of The Privilege is Mine . “Think: sage with ochre, dusty lilac with marigold, or powder blue with deep wine.” A Full Drip Color Story Party color palettes don’t have to be subdued in 2025. In fact, many hosts are opting for deeply saturated color stories. “Clients aren't being shy about their desired color palettes these days,” Holloway says. “Just like we're seeing in the interior design space, our clients are completely leaning into a ‘full drip,’ almost monochromatic palette, for their weddings.” Bold Color Mixes If monochromatic color palettes aren’t your thing, turn to the boldest color mixes of the year. “2025 is all about fearless color—rich shades like red, chocolate brown, punchy pinks, lavender, yellow, cobalt, and chartreuse are dominating design palettes,” says Estera Events Co-Owner and Lead Planner Bianca Hall. “The key to keeping this sophisticated is layering saturated hues with wood tones, metallics, or stone to balance drama with elegance. It’s confident, expressive, and anything but boring.” A Moment for Chartreuse If you want to make the biggest impact with a single color selection, Holloway says to opt for chartreuse. “We're seeing chartreuse become more welcomed with each passing day. Our clients love the unexpected juxtaposition it creates in a color palette,” she shares. “A punchy Save the Date? A gorgeous table linen? We're here for it. For a recent wedding, our bride kept reiterating she wanted her wedding to feel ‘cool and punchy with a classic twist.’ We incorporated the chartreuse custom pleated table linen with a traditional supper club lamp to create this ‘new traditional’ mix.” Creating a Home Away from Home Expanding on a sense of ease, Weiss says that parties in 2025 are being crafted to look and feel like home, regardless of where they’re actually being hosted. “It’s all about the table settings—we’re designing tables that look like the client’s dining room,” she reveals. “There’s a lot of focus on the details—sometimes we spend an entire week just making tabletop decisions.” The reason? At seated dinners and events, guests spend ample time eating, so the dishes, utensils, glassware, and linens get a lot of face time. “Everyone cares about the dishes and the details,” Weiss points out. “Choosing the right tablecloth, dishes, flatware, glassware, napkin treatment, place card holder—all of these details are big decisions. The good news is the options are no longer limited. Now, there are great companies like Maison de Carine , Casa de Perrin , and Theoni Collection that specialize in really beautiful tabletop pieces you would have in a home. The products don’t look like rentals, and often they are designer brands. Mixing and matching these elements allows hosts to introduce a color theme and style in a very unique and personalized way.” For an event that's smaller in scale, Weiss says to “simply open your cabinets and pull out everything. Things do not need to match. They just need to be part of the same story. Don’t mix fine china with a melamine plate, but mix colors and patterns and create interest. The pieces should be cohesive, but the colors can vary.” Mismatched Glassware When rummaging through your cabinets (or estate sales while hunting for the perfect party setting assortment), Forbes Functions Founder Cameron Forbes says not to worry about selecting a matching set. “In 2025, it’s all about personality, not perfection, and mismatched glassware captures that vibe perfectly,” she reveals. “Mixing vintage finds or colorful stems adds relaxed charm and a unique story to your table. It’s also fun and sustainable to thrift glassware, giving beautiful pieces a second life while cutting down on waste.” Layered Tablescapes Glasses aren’t the only thing that can be mismatched. The way Helmstetter and Vanco see it, layered tablescapes are the most alluring of all. “Tables feel less composed and more layered with details to discover,” Helmstetter says. “We love tables that include collected pieces such as linens sourced during travels, inherited silver pieces, or artisan ceramics, all mixed intentionally. The result is a table that feels unexpected, elevated, and personal.” Vanco agrees. “Minimalism has its place; [in 2025] we’re leaning into a more maximal and deeply layered look,” she says. “Multiple linens, stacked plates, colored glassware, and mixed textures create a collected, editorial feel. Each place setting tells a story, inviting guests to explore and appreciate the thoughtful details.” To create a layered tablescape at home, Helmstetter says to start with a textile you love. “ Then add pieces you’ve sourced over time, like a collection of vases or candlesticks that work well together but aren’t exactly all matching,” she instructs. “Add small elements that elevate the dining experience, such as vintage salt cellars, a silver-plated snack tray, or monogrammed dinner napkins. All will feel extra special and unexpected.” Garden-Inspired Florals Once upon a time, grand floral centerpieces towering well above the glassware were a must for memorable parties. Now, low, organic flowers steal the show, Weiss says. “The low organic look is very in, which is also reflective of that residential environment,” she shares. “Even a ballroom is designed to look like you’re at home. And if someone does prefer a tall centerpiece, it’s very simple and not over-the-top.” When selecting the florals for your party or event, Helmstetter says to look to your garden (or some of our gorgeous flower arrangements) for inspiration. “Arrangements are looser and more natural; think: vines, herbs, seasonal flowers, and even produce,” she reveals. “They’re designed to feel like they came from the landscape rather than a florist's fridge.” For the perfect garden-inspired floral moment, Helmstetter says to use wide, low vessels. “ Build with in-season ingredients and style with unexpected elements like fruit or herbs,” she instructs. “Don’t overwork it. Movement and asymmetry make it feel more interesting and natural.” Food as Decor Speaking of fruit and herbs, Forbes says that using food as party table decor is trending for 2025. “Halved grapefruits, leafy lemons, herbs cascading from bowls: These edible elements are becoming as much a part of the tablescape as the florals,” she shares. “It’s visual storytelling through ingredients, and I don’t see it going anywhere.” To execute the theme, Forbes says to look for produce with character. “Citrus with leaves still on, juicy figs, cherry stems, or bunches of herbs—they add color and movement without feeling forced,” she explains, noting that citrus fruits enhance the party’s aroma, too. Hand-Drawn Dinner Party There’s something so personal about a hand-drawn touch. “Whether it’s a kraft paper runner for guests to doodle on or a hand-painted menu, these perfectly imperfect details add warmth and personality,” Forbes says. “If you’re feeling ambitious, try embroidering your design to use as a keepsake or base layer for future events.” And whatever you do, don’t let your perfectionist side win. “Lean into the imperfections: It’s part of the charm,” Forbes says. “Let guests add their own doodles or messages throughout the evening to make the table come alive.” Lighting That Sets the Mood Here at VERANDA, we regularly remind readers of the power lighting has within the home. Now, Helmstetter and Mahler explain why the same is true for parties in 2025. “When done right, lighting can create atmosphere, define the room, and shift the energy as the night goes on,” Helmstetter says. “In 2025, lighting is the new florals,” Mahler adds. “From candlelight clusters to LED washes and projection mapping, lighting is being used for emotional impact and atmosphere-shaping.” Again, a layered approach works best. “ Use layers like overhead fixtures, soft table lamps, and candles at every level,” Helmstetter says. “Focus on warm, flattering tones. Light should guide the experience without drawing too much attention to itself.” Florals as Architecture While low, organic floral centerpieces reign supreme in 2025 party table settings, larger-than-life floral arrangements still have a place in the party-planning process. “Florals are no longer just centerpieces—they’re full-scale installations that serve structural, architectural, or sculptural purposes,” Mahler says, noting that overhead floral clouds and growing arches and frames are popular additions in 2025. Ribbons (Within Reason) Ribbons have been trending all year long thanks to their feminine, coquettish charm. “Tied to menus, woven into florals, wrapped around wine glasses—at first, it felt whimsical and nostalgic but it’s now teetering on overdone,” Forbes admits, noting that it’s nearly time to bid the trend adieu. “If you still want to play with bows, pick one tone or texture and use it sparingly: A consistent pop of satin or velvet goes a long way.” Dramatic Draping While velvet is top of mind, Forbes reveals that dramatic draping is making a major comeback in the party-planning space. “From puddled velvet tablecloths to gauzy overhead installations, draping adds texture, softness, and a sense of drama to spaces big and small,” she explains. “It transforms even simple rooms into romantic, transportive settings.” Fluid, Interactive Dining This year, we’re moving away from tailored menus and toward more fluid, interactive dining concepts brimming with choices. “Forget a single, seated meal—progressive dining is about creating a journey,” Mahler says. “Each course is a surprise and might come from a different station, chef, or region of the venue.” Forbes agrees. “The traditional plated dinner has taken a backseat to more progressive, evolving spreads,” she shares. “Think: caviar and chips to start, followed by a mid-party table swap for moody, late-night pasta. It’s dynamic and keeps guests on their toes. Think of your menu as a mood board, not a checklist. A surprise dish or mid-party course change can totally shift the energy and keep guests engaged.” So, why the change, you might ask? “Course-less formats using grazing boards, passed small plates, or roaming chef stations encourage movement and mingling,” Hall says. “The vibe is unfussy yet elevated, giving guests the freedom to indulge and explore without being confined to a seat.” Nostalgic Desserts While cakes are an obvious choice for weddings and birthdays, Helmstetter says there’s been a rise in nostalgic desserts entering the party circuit. “End a thoughtful but elevated dinner with a nostalgic dessert for a charming finish to the evening; it creates a joyful touchpoint and keeps the conversation going.” “Choose a dessert that brings guests back to their childhood. Think: banana splits, butterscotch pudding, strawberry shortcake, or another dessert that feels personal to you. When choosing, pick elevated ingredients like Marcona almonds rather than peanuts for a banana split, or consider Harry’s Berries on your shortcake, and so on,” she adds. Lounge-Style Seating Just as traditional seated dinners are out for 2025, so is classic seating. “2025 leans away from traditional long or round tables and embraces immersive layouts—cushioned lounge pits, curved modular banquettes, communal floor dining, or mini ‘islands’ of tables scattered throughout a space,” Mahler says. “Comfort and conversation are driving the design, with layered seating, low tables, and a mix of furniture that feels inviting and casual, but still refined,” Helmstetter adds. Elevated Cocktail Hours What started as a signature cocktail for the couple has since evolved into fully themed bar experiences. “Bars are interactive, and drinks are a moment in the event, not just a necessity,” Helmstetter says. “Tableside service, custom garnishes, and thoughtful presentations make even a simple cocktail feel special. Etched glassware, cocktail napkins with personal quotes, or a garnish station lets your guests feel like they're part of the experience. It doesn’t need to be dramatic, just intentional.” Botanical Cocktails and Garnish Bars As for which cocktails to showcase at your event, Helmstetter says to pick them with your menu in mind. On the other hand, Mahler says you can’t go wrong with botanical cocktails in 2025. “Cocktails are going green and sensory with edible flowers, infused syrups, foraged herbs, botanical ice cubes, and tinted or vintage glassware to enhance visual appeal,” she says. “Guests [process] their drinks visually as much as they taste them.” Charismatic Bartenders The drinks aren’t the only thing to consider when planning out your party’s bar. “Our clients are requesting bartenders who have great personalities—they entertain guests and make them feel welcome while making cocktails,” Weiss says. “This is something so simple but memorable for the guest (and it doesn’t add to the budget).” Hyper-Personalized Guest Touchpoints Remember: Hosting in 2025 is all about finding ways to connect with the guest. “It’s about storytelling and intimacy,” Mahler says. “Every guest touchpoint—place cards, menu choices, favors—is personalized.” With this in mind, Mahler says you might consider accentuating your event with handwritten notes, vintage key tags, personalized playlists, custom-scented candles, mini art prints, or monogrammed linen napkins they can take home. Interactive Guest Experiences Another way to make the guests feel seen during your special event? With interactive experiences that tie them to it. “2025 parties are leaning into interactivity,” Vanco shares, noting that portrait painters are becoming more and more common. “These experiences spark joy and conversation, making your event feel curated, not cookie-cutter.” An After-Party Event When all is said and done, not everything is said and done. “After parties are no longer an afterthought,” Holloway says. “Similarly to how the band sets the tone for the reception, DJs do the same for our after parties. The sites and bar are set high for these late-night shindigs.” Rebecca Norris is a full-time freelance writer living in the Washington, D.C. metro area. Over the past 10+ years, she’s heavily covered a range of lifestyle topics, including travel, home, beauty, style, wellness, and celebrity news. She is a graduate of George Mason University, where she earned a B.A. in Media: Production, Consumption, and Critique, along with a minor in Electronic Journalism. When she's not writing, she can be found strolling with her Jack-Chi, Cash, sipping iced matcha lattes, indulging in delicious cuisine, perusing farmer’s markets and antique sales, collecting colored glass, getting lost within the pages of a book, and exploring new bucket-list cities.
