Home > Compare Products Find the perfect fit for your tax business. Discover TaxSlayer Pro's tax preparation software designed for tax practices of all types. Explore our range of packages here. Features WEB PREMIUM CLASSIC Unlimited 1040 Program Comprehensive Bank Product Solutions TaxesToGo ® Mobile App Cloud-Based Tax Software Free Unlimited E-filing All States Included Digital Signature Compatible Choosing the right tax software Learn about our different software packages to determine your business needs. Our tax software packages offer everything you need to succeed and grow your tax preparation business. Watch video Tax Software Packages TaxSlayer Pro includes everything you need to succeed and grow your tax preparation business. Compare Products Consult our software comparison chart to find the perfect solution for your business. Compare features and benefits to make an informed decision that suits your unique requirements. Cloud-Based Tax Software Embrace the convenience of a mobile tax office with our comprehensive web-based software package. Prepare and e-file individual tax returns seamlessly on multiple devices, ensuring flexibility and mobility. All-inclusive tax software Each of our tax software packages includes free, unlimited federal and state electronic filing, all state and local taxes, and our top-rated technical support.. Premium tax software A full corporate business suite is included with our premium package, allowing both federal and state counterpart electronic filing for forms 706, 709, 990, 1041, 1065, 1120, 1120-S, and 5500. Not sure what software is best for your business? Let our exclusive guide assist you in selecting the ideal software. Our easy-to-follow guide will help you navigate the options and choose the best professional tax software for your business. Compare your options Choose the best package for your business. Features WEB $1,595 TRY IT FOR FREE Learn More PREMIUM $1,695 TRY IT FOR FREE Learn More CLASSIC $1,395 TRY IT FOR FREE Learn More Unlimited 1040 Program check check check Comprehensive Bank Product Solutions check check check TaxesToGo ® Mobile App check check Corporate Tax Software check Cloud-Based Tax Software check Free Unlimited E-filing check check check All States Included check check check Unlimited Top-Rated Support check check check Refund Estimator Tool check check check Multiple User Access check check check Web Bank Integration check check check Cloud-Based Reporting check check check Client Retention Database check check check Paperless Office check check Client Portal check check Digital Signature Compatible check check Tax Status Now check check Available in Spanish check Compatible with Mac OS check TRY IT FOR FREE TRY IT FOR FREE TRY IT FOR FREE Pro Web + Corporate Our newest package allows you to file individual returns with either cloud-based or desktop-based software. Enjoy the flexibility of the web-based software and the ability to file LLC and corporate returns with the desktop-based software. Contact us for more information. CONTACT US Home > Compare Products Compare Software Packages All-inclusive tax preparation software for tax practices of all types. Choosing the right tax software Learn about our different software packages to determine your business needs. Our tax software packages offer everything you need to succeed and grow your tax preparation business. Watch video Tax Software Packages TaxSlayer Pro includes everything you need to succeed and grow your tax preparation business. Cloud-Based Tax Software Embrace the convenience of a mobile tax office with our comprehensive web-based software package. Prepare and e-file individual tax returns seamlessly on multiple devices, ensuring flexibility and mobility. All-inclusive tax software Each of our tax software packages includes free, unlimited federal and state electronic filing, all state and local taxes, and our top-rated technical support. Desktop-based tax software A full corporate business suite is included with our premium package, allowing both federal and state counterpart electronic filing for forms 706, 709, 990, 1041, 1065, 1120, 1120-S, and 5500. Consult our software comparison chart to find the perfect solution for your business. Compare features and benefits to make an informed decision that suits your unique requirements. Not sure what software is best for your business? Let our exclusive guide assist you in selecting the ideal software. Our easy-to-follow guide will help you navigate the options and choose the best professional tax software for your business. HELP ME DECIDE Compare your options Choose the best package for your business. WEB $1,595 Features Unlimited 1040 Program check Comprehensive Bank Product Solutions check TaxesToGo ® Mobile App check Corporate Tax Software Call for details Cloud-Based Tax Software check Free Unlimited E-Filing check All States Included check Unlimited Top-Rated Support check Refund Estimator Tool check Multiple User Access check Web Bank Integration check Cloud-based Reporting check Client Retention Database check Paperless Office check Client Portal check Digital Signature Compatible check Tax Status Now check Available in Spanish check Compatible with Mac OS check Show All Features PREMIUM $1,695 Features Unlimited 1040 Program check Comprehensive Bank Product Solutions check TaxesToGo™ Mobile App check Corporate Tax Software check Free Unlimited E-Filing check All States Included check Unlimited Top-Rated Support check Refund Estimator Tool check Multiple User Access check Web Bank Integration check Cloud-based Reporting check Client Retention Database check Paperless Office check Client Portal check Digital Signature Compatible check Tax Status Now check Available in Spanish check Show All Features CLASSIC $1,395 Features Unlimited 1040 Program check Comprehensive Bank Product Solutions check Corporate Tax Software Free Unlimited E-Filing check All States Included check Unlimited Top-Rated Support check Refund Estimator Tool check Multiple User Access check Web Bank Integration check Cloud-based Reporting check Client Retention Database check Paperless Office check Client Portal check Digital Signature Compatible check Tax Status Now check Available in Spanish check Compatible with Mac OS check Show All Features Pro Web + Corporate Our newest package allows you to file individual returns with either cloud-based or desktop-based software. Enjoy the flexibility of the web-based software and the ability to file LLC and corporate returns with the desktop-based software. Contact us for more information. CONTACT US
