Let’s face it — your friends don’t want to help you move. Take it from someone who has hopped homes about five times in the last five years; moving to New York City is a true test of physical strength, emotional resilience, and grit. Add plenty of furniture, some furry friends, or small humans to that equation, and you’re lucky if you can finish the job without paying for an impromptu therapy session. While moving requires immense planning, patience, and packing, selecting the right moving service that suits your needs can alleviate some of that stress. Best overall: Roadway Moving Best flat-rate: Flatrate Moving Best inter-borough : Metropolis Moving Best for small moves: Perfect Moving Best with storage offerings: Piece of Cake Fortunately, there are several moving companies in New York City from which to choose and different services for every budget, distance, and time frame required. We’ve sifted through thousands of customer reviews and spent hours researching the best moving companies to help you find one that is insured, accredited, and works for you — from Piece of Cake Moving & Storage to trusted, local services like Roadway Moving, Flatrate moving, and more. Don’t forget, peak moving season in New York City runs through the summer and spikes around the beginning of each month. Around this time, movers tend to book up quickly. It’s always wise to plan a few weeks ahead of your move — before all the best moving companies are swept up in the storm. Read on for your guide to making your move as hassle-free as possible. Best Overall: Roadway Moving Pros: Celebrity and influencer-approved moving service Known for being on time and consistent, per reviews Cons: Expensive when it comes to single-item moves Roadway Moving has carved out a reputation in NYC for handling moves with the precision of a white‑glove service and the speed of a well‑oiled local team. Roadway Moving has over 3,000 reviews on Google, with an impressive average rating of 4.9 stars. The company has data to show for it, too. Over 99.3% of their moving and delivery services are on time. Based in Manhattan, Roadway Moving offers a full suite of services, from local apartment moves and long-distance relocations to storage, packing, and furniture disassembly. They’re BBB-accredited with an A+ rating and boast a 92%+ positive review rate. Customers consistently praise the team’s punctuality, attentiveness to fragile items, and smooth process, with one reviewer noting, “nothing felt rushed.” Roadway Moving offers storage in multiple cities across the United States, including NYC, LA, San Fransico, Miami, Chicago and Dallas. They never outsource their movers and unlike many of their competitors, they don’t work with third parties. The movers that customers see when loading their items into the truck are the ones that will finish the job (no matter how far you’re moving!). Due to this, Roadway is known for its long-distance moves. “From the start, their communication was prompt and professional, keeping us informed every step of the way,” one customer shared. “They were incredibly time-conscious, ensuring everything stayed on schedule. Daniel and his team made the entire process look effortless, handling everything with efficiency and ease.” If you’re looking for a mover that goes beyond simply hauling your belongings and provides elevated, careful service, Roadway Moving is a strong choice. Best flat-rate: Flatrate Moving Pros: Competitive pricing and special deals with up to $250 off Great attention to detail while setting up furniture, per reviews Cons: Some reports of customer service communication issues, per reviews Looking for a moving company that won’t drain your wallet and still does the job impeccably well? Flatrate Moving has been praised for being very consistent and showing meticulous attention to detail when moving and setting up furniture. Many of the reviewers are repeat customers, and believe the services are reasonably priced. “Flatrate was fantastic,” one happy mover noted. “They have competitive pricing, friendly staff, and are very professional. They checked in throughout the process for updates, and moving day was smooth sailing. We will definitely be using them again!” Best of all, Flatrate Movers is currently offering a few great seasonal moving deals, including a Winter Special Discount of $250, 15% off packing and unboxing services, as well as two months of free storage (the third and sixth month). Flatrate also offers special services for members of the military and government workers. Best inter-borough: Metropolis Moving Pros: Specialized in New York City Willing to work one-on-one for customized moving needs, per reviews Cons: The company does not offer storage services While not the largest moving company available in the city, Metropolis Moving is a great choice with reliable local and regional moving options. Since 2014, the company has provided services to all five NYC boroughs as well as the Mid-Atlantic coast. Customers suggest that Metropolis is priced fairly, and willing to work one-on-one with customers to get the job done right. The company does not offer storage services. “They moved me within the time frame. They couldn’t fit everything on the truck, so they got a discount for that. My former residence was falling apart. They moved me without complaint,” the customer shared. “They even took my treadmill that couldn’t fit on the truck around the corner to my friend’s furniture store for safekeeping. They reached my new place, unloaded the truck, set up my king-sized bed, and put the furniture in the various rooms. Great service.” Best commercial: Imperial Movers Pros: Offers a variety of personalized services for every type of moving need, short, long-distance Good with larger items and handling commercial moving jobs, per reviews Cons: Mixed opinions on pricing, per reviews Imperial Movers offers a full suite of moving services for every moving need, whether unpacking, storing valuables, moving art, or making a residential or large commercial relocation. The team is made up of a tight-knit group of movers based out of Greenwich Village and offers personalized packages to ensure that the unique needs of customers are catered to. The company has over 1,600 reviews on Google with an average of 4.4 stars. While there are some mixed reviews on cost expectations, many reviewers mentioned that Imperial Movers did a wonderful job moving everything quickly, and neatly — even the larger items. “In addition to boxes, furniture, etc., we had large heavy machines to move,” one happy customer shared/ “No problem and no complaints. They just took everything and were very pleasant to work with! Best for small moves: Perfect Moving Pros: Impressive 5-star rating on Google with glowing reviews Great customer service and friendly employees, per reviews Flat-rate deal for small moves Cons: Limited to New York and Miami Want your job done perfectly? Perfect Moving has your back — or at least, their expert movers do. Perfect Movers, located in New York and Miami, boasts over 1,500 reviews on Google and an astounding 5-star average rating. It really doesn’t get more perfect than that. “They took great care packing and unpacking as well as keeping me informed all the time during their travel to Florida,” an impressed customer wrote. “I was alone during my move but never felt alone because his team stayed with me to make sure I was well taken care of. They hung all of my artwork and placed all my furniture exactly where I wanted it. I would highly recommend this company!” The majority of moving services will require you to call for a quote. However, Perfect Moving is offering a limited-time promotion with up-front pricing. Small moves (within a three-mile radius) are available for a flat-rate fee of only $350. Examples of small rooms include dorms, studio apartments, and small office spaces. For people looking for a quick, simple move, Perfect Moving may be the best option. Best with storage offerings: Piece of Cake Pros: Celebrity and influencer-approved moving service Neat labeling and organized packaging and unboxing, per reviews Offers same-day and next-day moving service Top-rated by many publications Cons: Some unexpected charges, per reviews You’ve probably spotted a few of the hard-to-miss hot pink moving trucks making their way around the city. Piece of Cake Moving & Storage is among the most popular moving services in the city, and it’s not just because of the brilliant marketing. The company is well-known for last-minute moving jobs, with some same-day and next-day available, on top of an array of other white-glove relocation services. It’s also an official partner of the New York Knicks, and adored by influencers Kalli Locklear and Cosmopolitan cover girl Ashley Park. The company has been rated the best moving service by a number of publications, and reviewers are especially impressed with how easy it is to set up a move, and the company’s ability to accommodate special needs and last-minute changes. “I had to make an emergency trip overseas and manage my entire move remotely,” one customer shared. “It was all perfectly and seamlessly executed. Easy to use online payments. Quite elated that I found these guys. Can vouch for them even in my sleep!” Looking for a headline-worthy haul? Keep shopping Post Wanted. Why Trust Post Wanted by the New York Post For over 200 years, the New York Post has been America’s go-to source for bold news, engaging stories, in-depth reporting, and now, insightful shopping guidance. We’re not just thorough reporters – we sift through mountains of information, test and compare products, and consult experts on any topics we aren’t already schooled specialists in to deliver useful, realistic product recommendations based on our extensive and hands-on analysis. Here at The Post, we’re known for being brutally honest – we clearly label partnership content, and whether we receive anything from affiliate links, so you always know where we stand. We routinely update content to reflect current research and expert advice, provide context (and wit) and ensure our links work. Please note that deals can expire, and all prices are subject to change.
