Best Long-Distance & Cross-Country Movers 2026 analyzed 75+ long-distance movers and 10,000+ reviews to match you with the best — and cheapest — options for your move. Use our Find-a-Mover tool to get a moving estimate in minutes. Move.org's top picks for best long-distance movers For over 8 years Move.org experts have examined pricing, credentials, and real customer reviews to give you (human) recommendations you can trust. See how we review. With 30+ years in journalism, Rebecca specializes in covering home services and tech. She’s moved 15+ times. We’ve spent nearly a decade researching and testing long-distance movers to find companies that deliver fair pricing, reliable service, and fewer moving-day surprises. Allied Van Lines is our top overall pick, with strong alternatives like Colonial Van Lines , United Van Lines , American Van Lines , and Mayzlin for different budgets and priorities. Want a faster answer? Use our Find-a-Mover too l to compare personalized estimates from the movers that best fit your move. What are the cheapest days to hire movers? In general, weekdays are the cheapest days to hire movers. Weekends are typically the busiest, so if you're able to schedule your move during the week, you can often get a cheaper rate. Compare top-rated long-distance movers and find the best fit for your move Data as of post date. Offers and availability may vary by location and are subject to change. Pricing data collected by requesting ballpark estimates from moving companies. *Colonial Van Lines serves 40 states for origin and 46 states for destination. Pick the right mover for your priorities Choose Colonial for highly trained movers Choose American for overall value Choose United or Allied if you want no deposit Choose Mayzlin for discounts and price matching Since pricing and availability depend on your move details, the fastest way to narrow this down is to compare estimates directly. How to choose a long-distance mover What to expect during a long-distance moving quote Once you've decided to hire a mover, you've only got a few steps left to get a quote for your move. Here's how it works: Share your move details: Movers need to know about your route, timing, and home size to give you an accurate estimate. Narrow down your options: Pick the movers you want a quote from, based on your top priorities (e.g., deposits, services, discounts, etc.). Review and compare options: Your selected movers will follow up with details about their services and costs. Finalize your quote: After you've picked the estimate you like, a moving coordinator will work with you to help you take inventory for your move, confirm dates, discuss extras like packing or storage, and lock in your price. Tip: Get more quotes faster Use our Find-a-Mover tool to complete these steps in one place (and in under one minute!) and compare estimates from vetted and Move.org-endorsed movers faster! For a deeper dive, check out What Goes Into a Moving Estimate? and How to Do a Home Inventory. The best cross-country moving company reviews 1. Allied Van Lines: Best overall long-distance moving company Allied Van Lines stands out for its convenience , offering virtual in-home estimates and being one of the few moving companies that doesn’t require a deposit. Over the past 15 years, Allied has helped approximately 750,000 families move, earning a spot on our list of best long-distance moving companies every year since 2016. 1 Though it has fewer customer reviews than you might expect from a company nearly 100 years old, Allied excels in features that simplify the moving process, such as storage options, virtual quote options, and packing supplies. Its network of 400 local agents ensures efficient service across the country, and it offers some of the best storage solutions in the industry. The only downside is Allied’s limited customer reviews, which represent less than one percent of all moves Allied performs each year and tend to score lower than some competitors. However, certain carriers in its network receive near-perfect ratings, so we recommend checking reviews for the specific Allied Van Lines carrier you plan to use. —Wilder, Move.org Moving Grant recipient Image: Move.org Real customer experience Allied Van Lines was put to the test with Wilder, who received a Move.org Moving Grant to help with his move from Nashville, Tennessee to Plano, Texas. Wilder's experience with Allied was just what he’d hoped for: “fast, easy, and cheap.” The company offered the lowest price, the move was quicker than expected, and customer service was overwhelmingly positive. Even with a few minor hiccups, Wilder said he would definitely hire Allied again and recommend the company to others. Virtual in-home price estimate We really like Allied Van Lines' Virtual Moving In-Home estimate service. Instead of scheduling an in-home visit for your quote, you can opt for a video chat appointment. A moving coordinator guides you through showing your home using your phone’s camera, and they use this to create your estimate. While a final binding quote still requires an in-person visit, the virtual option gives you a price idea upfront and saves time if you choose not to move forward with Allied. Ready to book a move with no deposit needed? 2. Colonial Van Lines: Best-trained movers Colonial Van Lines is one of our favorite choices for long-distance moving , offering a range of services and options like packing, storage, and specialized care for items like antiques and art. Colonial specializes in out-of-state moves, working only with customers crossing state lines. Moving deposits usually land around 40%, but the more services you add, the more that deposit covers. If you (like me) prefer to do research without having to talk to somebody, this is the only company that provided an instant estimate when I filled out their online quote form. What sets it apart is Colonial's commitment to education. Movers undergo extensive hands-on training at the company's two-bedroom training facility, while customers benefit from a dedicated Account Manager to help them through the moving process. 🔥 Use promo code MOVEORG to save up to $500 on your long-distance move with Colonial Van Lines ! Limited-Time Offer. Offer valid for new reservations only. This deal cannot be combined with other offers. Why we recommend Colonial Van Lines: Standout features Colonial Van Lines University Relocating families and businesses nationwide requires careful planning, skilled hands, and strategic thinking, which is why Colonial Van Lines invests in comprehensive training through its own institution, Colonial Van Lines University (CVLU). Every new team member undergoes an immersive training program lasting two to four weeks at CVLU. Moreover, Colonial extends the benefits of CVLU to its customers. Quick courses are available for packing valuable items like dressers, chairs, appliances, books, fine china, and clothing—giving you the benefit of expert knowledge when preparing your possessions for relocation. Video: Colonial Van Lines University Colonial Van Lines employee training Binding estimates and price matching We recommend choosing a moving company that offers binding estimates, like Colonial Van Lines, to avoid unexpected price changes after signing. Colonial’s estimates are guaranteed, but you can adjust them with the Quality Assurance team up until your moving date—perfect for adding or removing services like packing based on your needs. Colonial calculates final binding quotes based on factors like load weight, locations, and moving dates to give you the most accurate pricing. As long as none of those things change, you can expect to pay what you were quoted, with no costly surprises. Colonial even offers a price match guarantee for qualified lower quotes from a competitor. —Leslie, Colonial Van Lines customer testimonial Ready to start your move with Colonial Van Lines? 3. American Van Lines: Best value American Van Lines is our value pick thanks to its flat-rate pricing . These long-distance movers don’t tack on fees for every service—and they don't skimp on the things you need to keep your stress level low and your belongings safe. American charges a flat rate and lets you use all of its many moving services (including piano moving). The company also background checks its workers (including drug tests and background screenings). The catch? American doesn’t have GPS tracking, which is a feature our readers really like. Images: Move.org Moving Grant recipient Crystal documented the care her American Van Lines moving crew took to ensure no damage. Why choose American Van Lines for your out-of-state move? Piano moving American Van Lines specializes in moving large and heavy instruments long distances. They know all the tricks of the trade to ensure that your piano arrives undamaged—and in tune. For example, did you know that professional movers should disassemble pianos before moving them? It’s a lot different than mental images of workers loading a baby grand onto a moving truck. American Van Lines trains its staff to disassemble, load, transport, unload, and reassemble your piano in working condition. Best of all—you don’t pay extra thanks to AVL's flat-rate pricing. Pianos aren’t the only high-value item that American Van Lines can move. The company also specialized in moving antiques and fine art. Flat rates American Van Lines’ flat-rate prices can save you time and money. Some state-to-state movers upsell you on services you don't need to make extra cash. Not so with American Van Lines. The company charges a single upfront rate based on the distance you're moving, the weight of your belongings, and any extra services. For example, let’s say you get a quote from American Van Lines—and another company that doesn’t use flat-rate pricing: It’s easy to see how your invoice looks cleaner (imagine a bill with two dozen extra line items). Plus, you can save money if you use enough high-end services. —Crystal, Move.org Moving Grant recipient Background-checked movers AVL’s across state movers are top-of-the-line professionals. The company puts every potential long-distance mover through an intense pre-hire screening process, including background checks and drug testing. Those who make the cut arrive at your home wearing uniforms that identify them as American Van Lines professionals. Looking for premium quality at a great price? 4. United Van Lines: No deposit required United Van Lines is a leading choice for your upcoming long-distance relocation with full-value protection on every move, an extensive list of services, and no need to pay a hefty deposit. The company provides a comprehensive range of services for cross-country moves, including auto transport, home cleaning, storage, and full-service packing. This makes United an excellent option for anyone seeking a convenient, one-stop shopping experience for their move. We especially like United's wide network of agents that can help you move across the country or across town. I used United for a recent local move and was pleasantly surprised at how easy and affordable it was. In fact, my final cost was a little bit less than the estimate I was given. —Kerry, Move.org Moving Grant recipient Real customer experiences We got to learn about United Van Lines firsthand with Kerry, one of the recipients of our Moving Grant. Overall, United met our expectations. Most of the staff were efficient and punctual, and every customer service representative was helpful throughout the process. On top of that, United exceeded its reputation for pricing transparency by lowering Kerry's estimate and sticking to that price. Image: Rebecca Edwards, Move.org I got to put United's local moving services to the test in Spokane, Washington. I needed to move my belongings I had in storage to a new apartment. After I requested my quote, I got a call within 24 hours. I was able to explain my situation and get a quote on the spot. On the day of the move, my moving crew (known as "Dr. Phil and son") was on time, friendly, and careful with my belongings. Best of all, I ended up paying almost $100 less than my estimate. See how competitive a quote from United Van Lines is! 5. Mayzlin Relocation: Best discounts Mayzlin Relocation is the youngest company on our list , but we like it for its competitive pricing, lower deposit requirement, and abundant discount options. We think Mayzlin is a good choice if you’re looking for an affordable moving company and you’re willing to give a newbie a chance. Why choose Mayzlin Relocation for out-of-state moves? Low deposits Many long-distance movers charge a hefty deposit of up to 50% for out-of-state moves. But Mayzlin Relocation sticks to a more affordable 25%. Moving cross-country is already expensive, so a lower initial deposit makes a big difference. On top of that, you can get a full refund for your deposit up to seven days before your moving date. Mayzlin makes it easy for you to see where your belongings are during your long distance move. With Live Tracking, you can follow the truck with your goods as it moves to your new home. Plenty of discounts Mayzlin Relocation sales agents do everything they can to make your long-distance move cheaper. Along with discounts for early booking, Mayzlin will price match with any reputable carrier. You may also be in luck if another customer cancels their move and Mayzlin needs to fill that slot. Ask your sales agent about potential savings while you're getting your quote! Discounts offered by Mayzlin include: Move.org reader discount Military Senior Membership discounts (AAA, AARP, Costco, etc.) Student Teacher Law enforcement First responder Early reservation discount Tariff discounts Mayflower: Best for full-service moves Mayflower has over 95 years of experience in the long-distance moving industry. Packing, crating, car shipping, even connecting and disconnecting electronics—Mayflower does it all. If you've got a daunting cross-country move ahead of you, it’s tough to find a more comprehensive moving experience than Mayflower can provide. That is, if you have the budget. Why choose Mayflower for your out-of-state move? Full-service moving packages While every company on this list can provide a full-service moving package, Mayflower just does it better than most. With one of its full-service moving packages, you can hire Mayflower to manage your move so you’re freed up to work on tackling other priorities. Each full-service move includes the following: Assigned move coordinator Full-Value Protection (unless waived) Standard transport of appliances Qualified drivers and equipment Loading, transport, and unloading of household belongings Disassembly and reassembly of standard bed frames Standard furniture placement These full-service moving packages are offered on top of an already comprehensive list of services, all carried out by Mayflower’s highly qualified agent networks. Packing Unpacking Trash and debris removal Storage Car shipping Speciality items Crating Electronics installation Move protection Mayflower full-service package pricing Shipment tracking A common frustration consumers face when moving across the country is not knowing exactly where their belongings are. Thankfully, Mayflower has you covered with its shipment tracking portal. All you need is your order number and last name to get an update on where your household items are on their journey to your new home. Hand the keys to your move over to Mayflower today! North American Van Lines: Best for customizable services North American Van Lines lets you pick and choose moving services. That’s a big deal because some companies charge you for everything whether you need it or not. This long-distance mover even has plans with supplemental insurance coverage. Not surprisingly, North American gets exceptionally high customer review scores. However, North American's website is clunky, and it’s tough to nail down the cost of your deposit. Why choose North American Van Lines for out-of-state moves? Customizable moving services North American Van Lines lets you pick and choose which moving services you want. For example, do you want to save a couple of thousand dollars by packing your belongings yourself? North American is okay with that (many companies aren’t). The same thing goes for other cross-country moving services too. If you’re up to the task of unloading your items, the North American Van Lines crew is happy to let you do the work. You can choose which local or long-distance moving services you want to pay for: Packing services Packing supplies Loading Unloading Climate-controlled storage Installation and assembly services Debris removal Live tracking North American Van Lines makes it easy to know where your household goods are even when you're states away. Once your move is in progress, the company will provide you with a six-digit registration number. Just plug that number into North American’s tracking website, and it will tell you where your belongings are. Image: Move.org You can get real-time location data for your North American Van Lines shipment with your six-digit registration number and the first three letters of your last name. Want to customize your move? BLVD Moving: Best for West Coast long-distance moves BLVD Moving stands out with a hybrid of corporate-level logistics and family-owned service. Based in California, this mover is ideal for West Coast customers planning long-distance or commercial moves, especially if you're moving high-value or delicate items like pianos and antiques. Why choose BLVD Moving for long-distance moves? Local service, national reach BLVD Moving brings a West Coast focus with nationwide capabilities. Whether you're relocating your home or business, the company offers long-distance service to all 48 contiguous states — with in-house teams trained to handle everything from antiques to large commercial moves. You’ll get a binding quote upfront that includes all expected services — so there are no surprise charges down the road. And if something goes wrong? BLVD uses barcode tracking to locate lost items quickly, and it resolves claims through a combination of in-house and third-party processes. No middlemen, just movers Unlike many competitors, BLVD Moving doesn’t broker moves out. Instead, they use vetted contractors or in-house crews, monitor every job closely, and run a dedicated fleet of trucks out of five warehouse hubs in Southern California. No matter where you're going, BLVD Moving delivers hands-on service, clear expectations, and experienced crews that take your move seriously. BLVD told us that all customers matter — regardless of the size of move — and their goal is to "make every move a breeze." Ready to book a long-distance move with BLVD Moving? More long-distance movers Check out our reviews of some other companies that we looked at during our evaluation and mystery shopping but didn't make the final cut for our best-of roundup: Planning for your long-distance move Check out our Ultimate Moving Checklist for a more detailed timeline and tips. Here is a rough timeline: Two months before your move Give yourself plenty of time. Get moving supplies. Create a home inventory. Choose move type according to your budget. Six weeks before your move Understand the difference between moving brokers and carriers. Get moving estimates and compare. Watch for moving scams. Decide and book your mover. One month before your move Two weeks before your move Moving day Use our Moving Day Checklist so you don't miss anything. Long-distance moving FAQ The best long-distance moving company Allied Van Lines . It's one of the most experienced moving companies out there, and you don't need to make a deposit to book your move. The average cost for interstate movers is about $9,060. However, prices vary depending on things like mileage, home size, and added services. We recommend tipping movers about 15% of your total bill for large homes and 5% for smaller homes. If the math is tricky, you can also ballpark and give each mover $40. Moving insurance is critical to ensure the safety of your belongings. The federal government requires that all cross-country moving companies provide moving insurance (called “valuation”). You can also purchase additional insurance from third parties to be extra safe. You should schedule your movers at least four weeks before your move. During this time, you should also coordinate a moving permit if you need one, gather any remaining supplies, contact utility providers, and make any travel arrangements. Start by getting a quote from several movers for a long-distance full-service move. Read customer reviews for phrases around quote and price accuracy, safe delivery, and quality service. Many companies will also offer discounts, extra services, and perks like free storage that are worth watching for. How we reviewed the best cross-country movers In late 2024, Move.org adopted an updated, more rigorous editorial strategy. This change included new editorial leadership and in-depth data collection and analysis from a dedicated data analyst. Our new approach is rooted in cutting through the noise to provide readers with honest, unfiltered information and reviews they can rely on. We are committed to bringing expert-backed insights that go beyond surface-level research. We aim to clarify misleading marketing, uncover real customer experiences, and highlight the best each company offers. We know that moving is a deeply personal experience, and that’s why we’re on a mission to identify the good, the bad, and the ugly so you can find the cross-country mover that meets your unique needs—while avoiding the common pitfalls that can be both financially and emotionally costly. Here’s how we do it: In-depth research and mystery shopping. Industry verification and regulatory compliance. Real-world moving experiences. Collaboration with moving companies and cross-verification. Ongoing monitoring and updates. A 5-point rating system that looks at pricing and value, customer service and experience, services and extras, availability and scheduling, and reputation. To learn more about how we evaluate and review cross-country moving companies, read our full methodology. Final word: Allied, Colonial, and American top our list of the best long-distance movers After spending months interviewing, researching, and comparing long-distance moving companies across the U.S., three rose to the top of our 2025 recommendations: Allied Van Lines, Colonial Van Lines, and American Van Lines. Each of these companies can service moves to and from most states and have been found to treat their customers with transparency, respect, and care. Allied Van Lines is our best overall interstate mover. It's one of the most experienced moving companies out there and we like that you don't need to fork over a chunk of cash to book your move. Colonial Van Lines scores a top spot thanks to how easy it is to get an instant online quote. It's one of the only companies we've found that will give you a ballpark estimate seconds after hitting "Submit." American Van Lines is one of our best moving companies because it has 30 years of experience, fully vets all drivers and movers with background checks, and offers affordable, flat-rate pricing. Not sure which company is right for you? Use our Find-a-Mover tool to compare personalized estimates from our top-picks in minutes. Related articles on Move.org Sources Allied Van Lines, "Home page," Accessed April 14, 2025.
