Highlight Fine art and piano shipping Types of moves Residential, commercial, senior Discounts available None specified Best Moving Companies in New York 2025 AmeriSafe Moving Services 4.1(905) FlatRate Moving 4.2(170) Bronze Star Moving and Storage Inc. 4.1(133) Best Moving Companies in New York 2025 +1 more Our top 3 picks for moving companies in New York Customer service: AmeriSafe Moving Services Flat-rate pricing: FlatRate Moving Punctuality and speed: Bronze Star Moving & Storage We analyzed top movers in New York based on ratings, reviews, price, additional services, discounts, availability and several other factors so you can find the right company for your move. Read our full methodology below for all the details. Our picks may be Authorized Partners that compensate us, but this does not affect our recommendations or evaluations. Company Customer rating Carrier vs. broker Highlight Types of moves Discounts available Packing services Type(s) of quotes Storage options USDOT number AmeriSafe Moving Services Get a Quote 4.1 905 reviews 905 reviews Broker and carrier Fine art and piano shipping Residential, commercial, senior None specified Packing services Binding not-to-exceed Yes 3341650 FlatRate Moving Learn More 4.2 170 reviews 170 reviews Carrier Flat-rate fee structure Local, long-distance, international, office moves Seasonal Full-serving packing Binding Yes 488466 Bronze Star Moving and Storage Inc. Learn More 4.1 133 reviews 133 reviews Broker and carrier Free 30-day storage Residential and commercial Military Full-service packing, unpacking, loading, unloading, assembly and disassembly Binding and nonbinding Yes 3710555 Highlight Fine art and piano shipping Types of moves Residential, commercial, senior Discounts available None specified Highlight Flat-rate fee structure Types of moves Local, long-distance, international, office moves Discounts available Seasonal Highlight Free 30-day storage Types of moves Residential and commercial Discounts available Military Moving Companies in New York Buyers Guide Jump into our guides and start learning In this guide Contents Top Picks See who reviewers like See our top picks How to choose a moving company in New York Moving can be stressful, but choosing the right moving company in New York can make a big difference. Here's a simplified guide to help you find the best fit: Assess your needs: Decide what you'll take and leave behind. Determine how much help you need from the movers based on your budget and time constraints. Start researching: Ask for recommendations from people you know and check online reviews. Get detailed quotes: Get in-home surveys from at least three companies for accurate cost estimates. Check licensing and insurance: Verify the company's credentials and insurance. Compare quotes and make a decision: Thoroughly compare quotes, considering factors beyond the lowest price. Best moving companies by city Cost to move in New York How much you pay for your move depends on whether you move yourself or hire movers, the move distance, how much you’re moving and any additional services (like packing or storage) you choose. Local movers typically charge by the hour, with a team of two movers costing $80 to $100 per hour as of publishing. Long-distance movers typically charge a flat fee, which may range anywhere from $2,000 to $8,000. Packing and unpacking services will cost you more. Tipping movers is optional but customary (10% to 20% of the total cost). Estimates for moving services from New York City (10001) The figures below are based on current (as of publishing) industry estimates for a three-bedroom home with no additional services. Destination Distance Estimated cost New York City (10002) Under 50 miles $2,572-$5,050 Boston (02114) Approximately 200 miles $3,522-$6,029 Denver (80202) Approximately 1,800 miles $8,335-$11,332 Tips for a successful move in New York There are ways to ease the stress of a move and simplify the process — it just takes some planning. 1. Get an idea of the scope of the move Think about how much time, energy and money the move will require. Evaluate your time frame, the number of items you need moved and your budget. Set aside extra funds for unexpected costs. » SMART MOVE: How to make a moving budget 2. Declutter in advance Reduce the weight and volume of your belongings to save on moving costs. Consider donating or selling items you no longer need. Your city or town may have local or national charities that offer donation pickup, including for larger furniture items. 3. Start packing early Begin packing items from less frequently used areas or seasonal items first. As you get closer to your move-out date, aim to pack one room per day and label boxes clearly. » MORE: How to pack for a move 4. Make sure your essentials are easily accessible Pack a box or bag for each person in your household containing essentials for moving day and the following day. Include a change of clothes, toiletries and any necessary medications — you don’t want to be without these during the move, especially if you’re driving a long distance. 5. Know how to contact your mover Have a reliable contact for the moving company so you can communicate logistics, ask questions and track your move. Some companies offer tracking via an app; find out ahead of time so you can download it and be ready for moving day. » MORE DETAILS: Moving checklist FAQ How much does it cost to rent a moving truck? Moving truck rental costs can range from under $100 to several thousand dollars, depending on the size of the truck, the distance you need to drive and the amount of time it takes. If you’re moving locally, you might spend around $20 a day plus mileage fees. How much should I budget for moving boxes and other supplies? If you were to buy brand-new moving boxes for a larger home, you might find yourself spending quite a bit of money. The good news: You can save by reusing old boxes or collecting them from friends and family. Costs for other moving supplies, like packing paper and cushioning material, are usually minimal but can add up — you might budget up to $100 for these materials. How much does it cost to ship a car? Depending on the exact mileage and other factors, it can cost between $500 and $1,700 to ship a car long-distance. Does New York have a high cost of living? As of publishing, New York’s overall cost of living is among the highest in the nation. Methodology ConsumerAffairs carefully collects in-depth, verified reviews to tell each customer’s experience with a company. We believe customer experiences are a crucial indicator when evaluating companies, so these reviews are a significant factor when selecting our top picks. To choose the top moving companies in New York, we started with the 80 popular providers listed in our main moving guide. First, we narrowed it down to the ones available in New York. We then weighted several key features to get our final rankings: Storage options: We looked at the availability of storage units and any free storage periods. Packing services: We considered the types of packing services offered, including whether a company offers packing services and whether it offers both full and partial packing. Deposit requirements: We prioritized companies that ask for 20% or less down versus those with higher deposit requirements. Discounts: We outlined how many discounts each company offers and what types (e.g., senior, military, student). App: We gave a company preference if it has an app with a useful service, like requesting a quote or tracking a move. Best cities to move to in New York From the roar of Niagara Falls to the historic Saratoga Race Course, New York state offers far more than just the high-rise hustle of Manhattan. Even as the Big Apple’s population rebounds from pandemic-era losses, the state’s true appeal lies in its lesser-known towns and cities — many of which boast lower crime and better affordability while maintaining strong job markets. If you’re thinking of relocating to New York, the first step is knowing which cities offer the best combination of what you’re looking for. Our research team determined the best places to live in New York for 2025 by analyzing the state's 35 largest cities based on five key factors: affordability, safety, economic strength, health care and education, and quality of life. Keep reading to discover which Empire State cities made the list and why. Top Picks See who reviewers like See our top picks Key insights: Best cities to move to in New York Tonawanda, a Buffalo suburb, is the best city to move to in New York due to its high scores in affordability, economic strength and safety. Jump to insight Four of the 10 best cities to move to in New York are located in the New York City metro area — yet NYC itself ranks as the second-worst place to live in the state. Jump to insight Long Beach ranks as the safest city in New York, with a violent crime rate roughly 82% below the state average and a property crime rate nearly 93% lower. Jump to insight Newburgh is the worst place to move to in New York, with low scores across nearly every category. Its violent crime rate is 185% higher than the state rate. Jump to insight The five best places to move to in New York New York State has struggled with outbound migration in recent years, ranking second in our 2025 study. Much of the movement has come from New York City, but beyond its bustling, expensive streets, New York has vast, scenic landscapes and safe, affordable, hidden gems. It has the second-best public education system in the nation, making it appealing for families and young adults looking to take advantage of underappreciated areas. 1. Tonawanda Nearly as far from New York City as you can get while staying within state borders, Tonawanda is ranked as the best place to move to because of its affordable housing, strong economy and safe communities. In the Buffalo suburb, owning a home is also significantly more affordable than in other parts of the state, making it easy to settle down and enjoy the region’s vast outdoor opportunities, including visiting Niagara Falls, which is about a 20-minute drive away. Affordable housing options: Tonawanda has one of the lowest median rents in the state, at $1,265, and its median home sale price is just 3.2 times the median income, well below the state average. Strong economy: The city has the third-lowest unemployment rate in the state, at 3.5%, and its poverty rate is just 9.8%, eighth lowest. Safe community: Tonawanda reports lower-than-average crime rates, with just 2.7 violent crimes and 12.9 property crimes per 1,000 people. 2. Saratoga Springs It’s off to the races with our second-best city to move to, Saratoga Springs, home to one of the oldest horse racing tracks in the nation. This small Capital District city of just over 28,500 earned its place for exceptional education and health care access, along with a strong economy and relatively safe environment. All this, combined with origins dating back to the late 18th century, makes it a place where you can enjoy historical charm and modern convenience. Strong economy: The city offers the lowest unemployment rate in the state, at 2.3%, complemented by a poverty rate below the state average (10.3%). Education and health care access: Saratoga Springs has a high share of residents 25 and older who have at least a bachelor’s degree (58.8%) and the second-highest density of health care professionals (43 per 1,000 people) on our list. Relatively safe: Saratoga Springs reports a lower-than-average violent crime rate, with just 2.7 violent crimes per 1,000 people. 3. North Tonawanda North Tonawanda, just a couple miles from the No. 1 city on our list, is a small city of just over 30,000 that was once known for its lumber industry and at one point was the largest port on the Great Lakes. Today, it's an affordable New York destination with exceptional safety and access to job opportunities in and around Buffalo. Affordable housing options: The city offers the fifth-most affordable housing on our list, with a median rent of $1,126 and a median home sale price 3.7 times the median income. Outstanding safety: North Tonawanda also has the fifth-best safety, with only 1.6 violent crimes and 11.6 property crimes per 1,000 people. Good economy: Its unemployment rate (6%) and poverty rate (12.1%) are just below the New York averages. 4. Long Beach While not the most affordable place to move in New York, Long Beach makes up for its high home prices with safety, a bustling economy, accessible health care, a well-educated population and high quality of life. It ranks among the top five in four categories, making it a no-brainer for anyone who can afford the cost. Unlike more rural areas, you’ll also have access to effective public transportation that connects to New York City (the Long Island Rail Road). Enjoy over 3 miles of immaculate beaches and a 2-mile boardwalk. Best safety: Long Beach is the safest city on our list, with only 0.7 violent crimes and 1.3 property crimes per 1,000 people. Strong health care and education: The city’s well-educated population (51.7% of people 25 and older hold a bachelor’s degree or higher) and excellent health care access (35 health care professionals per 1,000 people) earn it the third-highest ranking. High quality of life: Long Beach offers the highest quality of life among the top five cities, with 99% of residents living within a 10-minute walk to a green space. 5. New Rochelle The second location on our list within close proximity of New York City, New Rochelle stands out for its booming economy, quality of life and safe streets. While the city is over 325 years old, its master developer agreement with RXR about a decade ago is what really kick-started growth. As of 2023, the city also introduced the New Rochelle Forward program, with the goal of helping train community members for opportunities in construction, clean energy and sustainability. Second-best economy: New Rochelle has the second-highest job growth rate on our list, at 15.4% from 2020 to 2024, as well as an unemployment rate (6.1%) and poverty level (10.6%) that are both below the state average. Safe community: The city reports lower-than-average crime rates, with just 1.8 violent crimes and 13.9 property crimes per 1,000 people. Education and health care access: It has a high share of residents 25 and older with a bachelor’s degree or higher (49.1%) and good health care access (29 health care professionals per 1,000 people). See how the rest of New York compares The table below ranks the 35 most populous cities in New York across five key categories: affordability, safety, economic strength, health care and education, and quality of life. Whether you’re looking for safe, affordable cities or one of New York’s boomtowns, these cities offer diverse benefits. Check out our chart below to discover which city best suits your needs. Methodology: Best cities to move to in New York The ConsumerAffairs Research Team evaluated the 35 most populous cities in the state across five weighted categories to identify the best cities to move to in New York. In each category metric, the city that performed the best was given the highest possible score, with others getting relative scores. We added the category scores together to get an overall score, which is out of 100 points. Affordability (35 points): This category includes each city’s median rent for April 2025 (17.5 points) and an affordability ratio of median home price to median income (17.5). Data is from the U.S. Census Bureau (2023) and Zillow (2025). Safety (25 points): This score is based on rates of violent crime (12.5 points) and property crime (12.5) per 1,000 residents. Data is from NeighborhoodScout (2023). Economy (20 points): The economy score considers job growth percentage from 2020 to 2024 (10 points), unemployment rate (7) and percentage of residents below the poverty level (3). Data is from the New York Department of Labor (2020-2024) and the U.S. Census Bureau (2023). Health care and education (10 points): This category includes the number of health care professionals per 1,000 people (5 points) and the share of the population 25 and over that has attained a bachelor’s degree or higher (5). Data is from the U.S. Census Bureau (2023). Quality of life (10 points): The quality of life score considers walkability (5 points) and the percentage of the population living within a 10-minute walk of a green space (5). Data is from Walk Score (2025) and the Trust for Public Land (2025). Note: City-level data was unavailable or missing for some categories in the following cities, so we substituted the data when appropriate: Median rent (substituted with county-level data): Brighton, Jamestown, West Seneca, Irondequoit Violent and property crime rates (substituted with metro-level data): Brighton, West Seneca, Irondequoit For questions about the data or if you'd like to set up an interview, please contact rsowell@consumeraffairs.com. Reference policy We love it when people share our findings! If you do, please link back to our original article to credit our research. Best cities to move to: Article Sources ConsumerAffairs writers primarily rely on government data, industry experts and original research from other reputable publications to inform their work. Specific sources for this article include: Zillow, “Housing Data.” Accessed June 3, 2025. U.S. Census Bureau, “Explore Census Data.” Accessed June 3, 2025. NeighborhoodScout, “New York Crime Rates and Statistics.” Accessed June 3, 2025. New York State Department of Labor, “Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages.” Accessed June 3, 2025. Walk Score, “Cities in New York.” Accessed June 3, 2025. The Trust for Public Land, “ParkScore Home.” Accessed June 3, 2025. City of New York, “Population.” Accessed June 9, 2025. City of Tonawanda, NY, “Welcome to Tonawanda, NY.” Accessed June 3, 2025. City of Saratoga Springs, “Saratoga Springs History.” Accessed June 3, 2025. SaratogaRaceTrack.com, “Discover the Storied History of Saratoga Race Course.” Accessed June 9, 2025. City of North Tonawanda, “About the City of North Tonawanda.” Accessed June 3, 2025. Long Beach, NY, “Explore.” Accessed June 10, 2025. New Rochelle, NY, “Our History.” Accessed Jun. 3, 2025. New Rochelle, NY, “City of New Rochelle Celebrates Grand Opening of New Rochelle Forward Vocational Training Space.” Accessed Jun. 3, 2025. New Rochelle, NY, “New Rochelle Adopts Sweeping Downtown Development Plan.” Accessed Jun. 3, 2025. Thanks for subscribing. You have successfully subscribed to our newsletter! Enjoy reading our tips and recommendations. Read New York moving company reviews A brokerage company that arranges transportation for your move. Offers auto transport, packing and storage services. Not available in all states. Serves some states only partially. Free quote online or by phone. Licensed moving company that offers local, long-distance and international moves. Services available by van, freight, air and ocean. Works in the entire U.S. and more than 180 countries. Free moving quotes available. Offers local, long-distance, international and commercial moving services. Local moves cost $150 to $900. Most interstate moves cost $1,000 to $4,000. Storage services, auto transport and specialty packing services available. Tailored moving services. Professional, experienced movers. Commitment to customer satisfaction, transparent pricing and a track record of reliable service. Moves out of state. Backed by years of expertise. Licensed moving broker. Offers long-distance and military moves, auto transport and packing services. Free quotes. Works with authorized carriers. Available across the U.S. Online payments. Carrier moving services. Offers long-distance moves nationwide, including Alaska and Hawaii. Works with residential and commercial customers. Offers packing services as well as long and short-term storage. Provides free quotes. Local and long-distance moving broker and carrier. Performs basic and full-service moves. Packing, loading, disassembly, unpacking, unloading and reassembly. Free 30-day storage. Long-term storage. 72-hour cancellation. Handles local NYC and cross-country moves. Charges between $2,750 and $8,000 for moves from New York to Austin, depending on time of year and apartment size. Has a moving app. Offers packing, crating and cleaning services. Offers storage and local, long-distance and office moving services from its location in Boynton Beach, Florida. Hires carriers for moves and provides a team of moving professionals. Offers long-distance, military, commercial and corporate moving services. No extra charges for last-minute moves. Requires a significant deposit to reserve a move. Cross-country moves typically cost from $2,000 to $5,000. Over 90 years in service. Cross-country and long-distance moves. Offers a variety of packing, moving and storage services. Vehicle shipping. Covers all 50 states and international moves. Offers long-distance moving and corporate relocation services. Packing services and storage available. Serves the continental U.S. Charges between $2,500 and $5,000 for a two-bedroom move from Philadelphia to Kansas City. Broker that specializes in interstate moves for residential and commercial customers. Handles moves of all sizes. Packing services available. Free quotes include tolls, taxes, fuel and all other fees. Provides movable storage boxes you pack and unload yourself. Handles moves of at least 100 miles. Offers free quotes and flexible storage options. Does not offer services for local moves. Typical moves cost from $500 to $2,500. Over 95 years in service. Cross-country and long-distance moves. Offers a variety of packing, moving and storage services. Vehicle shipping. Covers all 50 states and international moves. Moving company based in North Carolina. Offers local, long-distance, commercial and military moving services. Packing and storage options are available. Provides a free quote with no hidden costs. Available 24/7. Specializes in moves for corporations, military personnel and seniors. Charges from $2,000 to $5,000 for long-distance moves. Provides door-to-door relocation options. Offers furniture assembly and protection. Specializes in long-distance moves. Charges around $2,500 for a cross-country move. Full packing and unpacking services. Short- and long-term storage options available. Provides a dedicated moving coordinator. Military discounts. Transports locally, long-distance and internationally. Offers residential and commercial moving. Also offers storage and archive services. Uses sustainable practices. Offers 24-hour customer support and mobile app. Miami moving and storage company. Local, long-distance and corporate moving services available. Optional storage services at its secure storage facility. Prices start at $435 for a three-hour local move. Rents 12- to 26-feet-long moving trucks. Sells packing materials. Free unlimited mileage on one-way trips. Discounts for AAA members and other programs. Minimum rental periods apply. A move from Houston to Dallas costs about $202. Provides moving services for all types of households. Performs local, long-distance and international moves as well as military and government relocations. Add-on packages start at $195. Offers container shipping, storage, moving tools, packing supplies and hitches. Rental options include pickups and 26-foot trucks. Serves the U.S. and Canada. Hourly and per-mile fees. Local moves cost as little as $19.95 a day. Rents out moving trucks and accessories for residential and commercial moves. Offers packing, loading and unloading assistance. Sells packing supplies. Available nationwide. Provides discounts for students, vets and older adults. Matches clients with moving service providers. Local and long-distance moving in 28 states. Provides tailored packages. Offers hourly labor for loading and unloading. Sells packing supply kits. Offers a tracking app. National mover licensed in all 50 states. Provides a single point of contact for support on all moves. Offers multiple services, including white-glove delivery, antique moving and motorcycle moving. Rents storage units. Handles moving and relocation services across the contiguous U.S. Offers commercial and residential moving services, packing services and auto transport. Provides discounts for military, early booking and same-day booking. Read New York moving company reviews Company Customer rating About Learn More 4.8 112 reviews A brokerage company that arranges transportation for your move. Offers auto transport, packing and storage services. Not available in all states. Serves some states only partially. Free quote online or by phone. Read reviews 4.7 1,266 reviews Licensed moving company that offers local, long-distance and international moves. Services available by van, freight, air and ocean. Works in the entire U.S. and more than 180 countries. Free moving quotes available. Get a Quote 4.6 75 reviews Offers local, long-distance, international and commercial moving services. Local moves cost $150 to $900. Most interstate moves cost $1,000 to $4,000. Storage services, auto transport and specialty packing services available. Get a Quote 4.3 2,863 reviews Tailored moving services. Professional, experienced movers. Commitment to customer satisfaction, transparent pricing and a track record of reliable service. Moves out of state. Backed by years of expertise. Get a Quote 4.3 456 reviews Licensed moving broker. Offers long-distance and military moves, auto transport and packing services. Free quotes. Works with authorized carriers. Available across the U.S. Online payments. Get a Quote 4.1 905 reviews Carrier moving services. Offers long-distance moves nationwide, including Alaska and Hawaii. Works with residential and commercial customers. Offers packing services as well as long and short-term storage. Provides free quotes. Get a Quote 4.1 133 reviews Local and long-distance moving broker and carrier. Performs basic and full-service moves. Packing, loading, disassembly, unpacking, unloading and reassembly. Free 30-day storage. Long-term storage. 72-hour cancellation. Read reviews 4.2 170 reviews Handles local NYC and cross-country moves. Charges between $2,750 and $8,000 for moves from New York to Austin, depending on time of year and apartment size. Has a moving app. Offers packing, crating and cleaning services. Read reviews 3.9 982 reviews Offers storage and local, long-distance and office moving services from its location in Boynton Beach, Florida. Hires carriers for moves and provides a team of moving professionals. Get a Quote 4.0 2,661 reviews Offers long-distance, military, commercial and corporate moving services. No extra charges for last-minute moves. Requires a significant deposit to reserve a move. Cross-country moves typically cost from $2,000 to $5,000. Get a Quote 4.0 510 reviews Over 90 years in service. Cross-country and long-distance moves. Offers a variety of packing, moving and storage services. Vehicle shipping. Covers all 50 states and international moves. Read reviews 3.7 815 reviews Offers long-distance moving and corporate relocation services. Packing services and storage available. Serves the continental U.S. Charges between $2,500 and $5,000 for a two-bedroom move from Philadelphia to Kansas City. Get a Quote 3.7 260 reviews Broker that specializes in interstate moves for residential and commercial customers. Handles moves of all sizes. Packing services available. Free quotes include tolls, taxes, fuel and all other fees. Read reviews 3.5 30 reviews Provides movable storage boxes you pack and unload yourself. Handles moves of at least 100 miles. Offers free quotes and flexible storage options. Does not offer services for local moves. Typical moves cost from $500 to $2,500. Read reviews 3.2 834 reviews Over 95 years in service. Cross-country and long-distance moves. Offers a variety of packing, moving and storage services. Vehicle shipping. Covers all 50 states and international moves. Read reviews 3.1 205 reviews Moving company based in North Carolina. Offers local, long-distance, commercial and military moving services. Packing and storage options are available. Provides a free quote with no hidden costs. Available 24/7. Read reviews 2.6 285 reviews Specializes in moves for corporations, military personnel and seniors. Charges from $2,000 to $5,000 for long-distance moves. Provides door-to-door relocation options. Offers furniture assembly and protection. Read reviews 2.7 275 reviews Specializes in long-distance moves. Charges around $2,500 for a cross-country move. Full packing and unpacking services. Short- and long-term storage options available. Provides a dedicated moving coordinator. Military discounts. Read reviews 2.3 50 reviews Transports locally, long-distance and internationally. Offers residential and commercial moving. Also offers storage and archive services. Uses sustainable practices. Offers 24-hour customer support and mobile app. Read reviews 2.5 139 reviews Miami moving and storage company. Local, long-distance and corporate moving services available. Optional storage services at its secure storage facility. Prices start at $435 for a three-hour local move. Read reviews 1.8 331 reviews Rents 12- to 26-feet-long moving trucks. Sells packing materials. Free unlimited mileage on one-way trips. Discounts for AAA members and other programs. Minimum rental periods apply. A move from Houston to Dallas costs about $202. Read reviews 1.7 231 reviews Provides moving services for all types of households. Performs local, long-distance and international moves as well as military and government relocations. Add-on packages start at $195. Get a Quote 1.4 1,318 reviews Offers container shipping, storage, moving tools, packing supplies and hitches. Rental options include pickups and 26-foot trucks. Serves the U.S. and Canada. Hourly and per-mile fees. Local moves cost as little as $19.95 a day. Read reviews 1.1 932 reviews Rents out moving trucks and accessories for residential and commercial moves. Offers packing, loading and unloading assistance. Sells packing supplies. Available nationwide. Provides discounts for students, vets and older adults. Read reviews 1.1 285 reviews Matches clients with moving service providers. Local and long-distance moving in 28 states. Provides tailored packages. Offers hourly labor for loading and unloading. Sells packing supply kits. Offers a tracking app. Read reviews 1.0 191 reviews National mover licensed in all 50 states. Provides a single point of contact for support on all moves. Offers multiple services, including white-glove delivery, antique moving and motorcycle moving. Rents storage units. Read reviews 1.0 270 reviews Handles moving and relocation services across the contiguous U.S. Offers commercial and residential moving services, packing services and auto transport. Provides discounts for military, early booking and same-day booking. Read reviews Want your company to be on this guide? Yes, continue Comparing
