10 Best Moving Companies in New York (2025 Reviews) Let's get moving. Zip to Zip Moving Inc Safeway Moving PODS Zip to Zip Moving Inc Budget Truck Rental Our track record Each year, 400,000+ people trust our moving recommendations. Here are a few reasons why: Founded in 2015 3,500+ moving companies analyzed $50,000 in moving grants delivered Up-to-date pricing info & industry data Fact-checked for accuracy Best movers for those moving locally in New York Whether you're moving across town in New York City, Brooklyn, or elsewhere in New York — or within 50 miles down the road — hiring a local NY mover is likely your best bet. We’ve evaluated 133 local New York movers and recommend Zip to Zip Moving Inc thanks to their professionalism and clear rates. Zip to Zip Moving Inc: 4.58 out of 5 stars Lifestyle Moving & Storage: 4.12 out of 5 stars Men On The Move: 4.76 out of 5 stars Seka Moving: 4.7 out of 5 stars Piece of Cake Moving & Storage: 4.66 out of 5 stars 98% of all reviews were positive 1% of reviews were negative Company Info State license #: 9229 Years in Business: 7 DOT #: 2969363 Services Offered Local moves Interstate moves Packing Unpacking Offices Pianos Hot Tubs Pool Tables Art Antiques Crating Full-valuation coverage Storage Safes Pay by money order Pay by cash Pay by credit card Deposit Required 97% of all reviews were positive 2% of reviews were negative Company Info Years in Business: 3 DOT #: 3652616 Services Offered Interstate moves International moves Packing Unpacking Offices Pianos Art Antiques Crating Storage Pay by cash Pay by credit card Deposit Required 85% of all reviews were positive 12% of reviews were negative Company Info State license #: 11671 Years in Business: 37 DOT #: 526079 Alternate Names: Men On The Move Self Storage Company, Inc. Men On The Move, serving Woodbury, NY since 1988, specializes in local residential moving services and has cultivated a reputation for reliability and professionalism. They also offer packing, unpacking, and crating services, ensuring a comprehensive moving experience. Highly regarded by customers, Men On The Move boasts an impressive 4.0 average rating from 228 Yelp reviews and a near-perfect 4.9 rating from 68 Google reviews, complemented by an A+ rating from the Better Business Bureau. Unlike many nearby competitors, they also provide full valuation insurance coverage, offering additional peace of mind to those entrusting them with valuable items like pianos, art, and antiques. Services Offered Local moves Interstate moves International moves Packing Unpacking Offices Pianos Art Antiques Crating Full-valuation coverage Storage Pay by cash Pay by credit card Deposit Required 85% of all reviews were positive 13% of reviews were negative Company Info State license #: 40118 Years in Business: 7 DOT #: 3014539 Alternate Names: Seka Moving Corporation Seka Moving has been providing local residential moving services in and around New York, NY since 2019 and has quickly built a reputable name in the industry. With impressive consumer reviews—an average rating of 4.6 on Yelp and 4.9 on Google My Business, coupled with an A+ Better Business Bureau rating—Seka Moving stands out among nearby competitors. Their comprehensive offerings include packing and unpacking services, labor-only services, and specialized moving for items such as pianos, hot tubs, and art. Though a deposit is required, they accept multiple payment forms and provide full valuation insurance coverage, making them a trustworthy choice for local moves. Services Offered Local moves Interstate moves Packing Unpacking Offices Pianos Hot Tubs Pool Tables Art Antiques Grandfather clocks Crating Full-valuation coverage Storage Fragile-only packing Pay by money order Pay by cash Pay by credit card Deposit Required 95% of all reviews were positive 5% of reviews were negative Company Info State license #: 40244 Years in Business: 6 DOT #: 3066988 Alternate Names: Piece of Cake Moving & Storage LLC Piece of Cake Moving & Storage offers top-tier local residential moving services in and around New York, NY, setting itself apart from competitors with its reliability and efficiency. Since 2019, this company has garnered a stellar reputation, boasting an impressive 4.7 average rating on Yelp from 1,580 reviews and a 4.8 average rating on Google from 3,214 reviews. They also hold a BBB rating of A-, underscoring their commitment to customer satisfaction. In addition to local moves, their comprehensive services include packing, unpacking, and specialty moves for pianos, art, and antiques. Customers appreciate that they accept credit cards, although a deposit is required. Services Offered Local moves Interstate moves Packing Unpacking Offices Pianos Art Antiques Crating Storage Fragile-only packing Pay by credit card Deposit Required Other local NY movers While these local New York movers did not make our top list, they are still worth looking into: Al's Moving and Storage NYC Great Movers Sheridan Brothers Moving Roadway Moving Zeromax Moving and Storage Gentle Giant Moving Company Wayfinder Moving Services College Hunks Hauling Junk & Moving Great Movers Dumbo Moving and Storage Clancy Moving Systems, Inc. Mabey's Moving & Storage Ron's Trucking Corp Naglee Moving & Storage,Inc. Oz Moving & Storage, Inc. Triangle Movers Inc. Shleppers Moving & Storage Imperial Moving and Storage Interior Moving Services Inc Quality Moving & Storage, Inc. Arnoff Moving & Storage Big Apple Moving and Storage, Inc. Flatrate Moving JP Urban Moving Empire Movers Maffucci Moving & Storage WM Movers, Inc. Your Hometown Mover All Around Moving Services Company, Inc. Liberty Moving & Storage Co., Inc. All The Right Moves Ltd Metropolis Moving, Inc. Teddy Moving and Storage Inc. Diamond Hands Moving & Storage Veteran Movers NYC LLC Octomovers Noah's Ark Moving & Storage Inc. Soliman Movers And More Q's Moving Corp. Dimon & Bacorn Company of Binghamton Reliable Movers and Removal Highline Moving and Delivery Clark Moving & Storage All Star Moving & Storage, Inc. Movage Moving & Storage Elate Moving LLC Reputable Moving & Storage Hall Lane Moving & Storage TDY Moving and Storage Divine Moving and Storage Ltd. Perfect Moving TWO MEN AND A TRUCK Mazel-Tov Moving and Storage, Inc. BeeLine Moving & Hauling LLC Green City Movers Inc. Corrigan Moving Systems Bellhop Moving Pack & Go Movers Corp. 1/2 Price Movers NJ Get Moving USA, LLC Liffey Van Lines, Inc. IPS NYC Movers, LLC Zenith Moving Movers Not Shakers Tony Caccamise Moving Co., Inc. Ideal Moving & Storage Olympus Moving & Storage, Inc. A&J Moving & Storage Don's Moving & Storage TB Moving Big John's Moving, Inc. High-Touch Moving Systems, Inc. Heart Moving Clean Cut Moving Samonas Prime Moving & Storage Inc. Active Moving, Inc. Liga Moving Konstantly Moving City Express Moving Moishe's Moving Systems A Man with a Van & More East Coast Moving Inc Cool Hand Movers Austin Moving & Storage Co., Inc. Bauer & Son Moving Upstairs Downstairs Moving Dimon & Bacorn Phil's Moving Company Available Movers & Storage, Inc. Lehto's Relocation Services Braha Moving Systems Dunbar Moving Dyno Moving ROGERS Service Group Reliable Movers LLC Excellent Quality Movers Man With A Van Murphy Moving & Storage, Inc. TNT Movers LLC iMOVE NYC Frenchy Helping Hands LLC Globe Storage & Moving Co., Inc. E Square Moving & Storage BQ Transport LLC Joe's Moving Co. MJ Moving and Storage Inc. Schaap Moving Systems Inc Best Buffalo Movers Pryority Movers Clinton Moving & Packaging, Inc. EJA Moving & Storage Extra Help Movers LLC ZeroMax Moving & Storage | Moving Company NYC Zino Movers Joe Gardner & Sons Local Movers KP Quality Inc New York Nomads Moving LLC SafeCube Moving Delaney Moving & Storage Ralph Palmisano Movers Rev'd Up Moving Gray Moving & Hauling Capital Movers U-Pack Jay Valley Movers The Careful Brothers Moving Company Mountain Moving Solid Movers NYC Specialty services NY movers offer Not every mover provides the same services. Availability of specialty options can depend on your location and the movers nearby. Below, see which services movers in New York provide compared to the national average, plus our top recommendations for each. Piano moving Comparing NY & national movers New York (77.7%) Nationwide (72.33%) Top New York piano movers Special handling of antiques Comparing NY & national movers New York (55.41%) Nationwide (46.07%) Top New York antique movers Art packing & loading Comparing NY & national movers New York (61.49%) Nationwide (45.57%) Top New York art movers Climate-controlled storage Comparing NY & national movers New York (42.57%) Nationwide (32.55%) Top New York climate-controlled storage movers Fragile-only packing Comparing NY & national movers New York (18.92%) Nationwide (23.52%) Top New York fragile-only packing movers Best movers for those moving out of New York Heading out of the Empire State? Check out these top-rated interstate movers to make your long-distance move as smooth and stress-free as possible: Safeway Moving: 4.85 out of 5 stars American Van Lines: 4.5 out of 5 stars North American Van Lines: 4.5 out of 5 stars Allied Van Lines: 4.75 out of 5 stars Mayzlin Relocation: 4.9 out of 5 stars GPS tracking en route Veteran-owned Dedicated move coordinator Flat-rate pricing Donates a portion of moves to charity Experienced & fully trained moving crews Specializes in moving art & antiques Competitive pricing Can handle last-minute moves Climate-controlled storage Custom crates for electronics & art Satellite shipment tracking 1,500 local agents covering all 50 states Self-packing option No deposit required Fragile packing Storage options 24/7 shipment tracking Quick & efficient Accurate quotes Family-owned, with locations covering the East Coast Full refund if you cancel within 7 days of your move Hands-on customer service 24/7 support Price-matching policy Best moving containers in New York Need a budget-friendly move, extra time, or storage along the way? Moving containers are a flexible DIY option that can also save you lots of money. You can pack at your own pace over several days, and once you're set, the company will handle the transport for you. Here’s a look at our top moving container choices in New York: Best rental trucks for your New York move Opting for a rental truck is one of the most economical moving methods — but it requires the most hands-on work. You’ll need to manage everything from start to finish, including driving. If you're willing to put in the labor, it can result in major savings, particularly for local moves. Rental trucks can also be used for cross-country moves, but don’t overlook hidden costs like fuel and per-mile fees. These extras can really add up, so take them into account when budgeting. Check out our picks for best rental moving trucks in New York: Labor-only hourly movers in New York If you’re cool with driving but need help lifting and loading, labor-only movers are a great option. They’ll tackle the packing and heavy lifting while you stay in control of the rental and the route. Take a look at these highly recommended labor-only movers for your New York move: Top-rated movers in nearby cities How we chose the best moving companies in New York moveBuddha’s expert team analyzed 133 New York movers and listed the top movers based on customer satisfaction, reviews, and cost. Customer satisfaction (40%) : The company consistently delivers services in a timely matter with good communication and within the estimated cost. Dispute resolution (20%) : Mistakes cannot be avoided in the moving industry. We look for companies that own their mistakes and make genuine efforts to fix any issues that arise during a move. Industry reputation (15%) : The company is well-regarded within the moving industry and participates in industry conferences and organizations. Online reputation (15%) : The company maintains a professional website with accurate information. The company promptly and professionally responds to online customer inquiries. Service options (10%) : We look for companies with a deep breadth of services including full packing, storage, specialty item handling, and expedited delivery. Here is our full moving company rating methodology. Average cost of moving companies in New York The table below includes estimated moving costs for local relocations within New York. For a deeper dive into pricing, here’s our guide on the cost to move in New York. Remember, the figures shown are averages. Your actual moving costs may vary significantly based on the details of your move and whether the movers use flat-rate pricing. You can also use our free moving cost calculator to get a more personalized estimate. Home size Avg. total cost Cost/hour # of movers # hours Studio $465 $183 2 movers 3 hours 1 bedroom $648 $183 2 movers 4 hours 2 bedroom $1,052 $257 3 movers 5 hours 3 bedroom $2,438 $359 4 movers 8 hours 4 bedroom $2,797 $359 4 movers 9 hours 5+ bedroom $4,304 $503 5 movers 10 hours Read more about the average cost of NY movers: On average, moving a studio within New York costs about $465. Moving a one-bedroom apartment locally in New York will cost around $648. Two-bedroom moves in New York come in at approximately $1,052. The typical cost of moving a three-bedroom home in New York is $2,438. A four-bedroom move in New York generally runs about $2,797. Need to move a five-bedroom or larger house in New York? Expect to spend about $4,304. Factors that affect moving costs in New York An online moving quote doesn’t always tell the full story, so keep these factors in mind when planning your New York move. Distance: Fuel and time can impact local moves, and out-of-state relocations may bring added expenses. Size: The more items and space you have, the more you'll pay in labor and truck size. Time of year: In New York, the busy moving seasons like summer and holidays often come with premium rates. Additional services: Tasks like packing or furniture setup take time and add to your moving costs. Things to keep in mind when moving No matter if you're heading to a nearby city in New York or embarking on a long-distance cross-country journey, here are a few key things to consider: Weather: The climate of New York state is generally has warm to hot summers and cold winters. In the farther southeastern portion of the state (New York City and Long Island area) hot and humid summers and cool to mild winters. Winter temperatures average below freezing during January and February in much of New York state, but several degrees above freezing along the Atlantic coastline, including New York City. HOA guidelines: New York neighborhoods with HOAs often have specific moving rules regarding times, truck types, and parking. Reading the handbook ahead of time can help you avoid fees and friction with your new neighbors. Elevator logistics: In buildings with elevators, management may require you to reserve one in advance — usually a designated service elevator. They might also require you to adhere to specific move-in hours. Permits for parking: Though New York doesn’t usually require special permits for moving vehicles, other cities or states might. It’s best to check with your new municipality for parking details. Check mover credentials: The movers we suggest are licensed and insured, but you can also research them through the FMCSA database to view their safety record and compliance. USPS notification: To avoid mail interruptions, complete your change of address form with USPS at least one week before your move date. Moving coverage: Movers provide free basic coverage by law, but it’s minimal. For expensive items, additional insurance may be a smart investment to protect against loss or damage. FAQs What should I consider when hiring a moving company in New York? When selecting a moving company in New York, look for a strong track record, honest and upfront pricing, a wide range of services, and several insurance coverage choices. These elements — among others — are key to our reviews and rankings, helping you easily identify the best movers in New York. Be sure to request quotes from at least three movers, including one of the best flat-rate companies in New York, to compare value and services. Can New York movers handle relocations across state lines? Yes. A strong share of movers in New York are qualified for interstate work. Of the 148 total movers in NY, 130 carry authorization to manage interstate relocations. This ensures plenty of choice if you need a mover with a USDOT number regulated by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. To find the most reliable fit, take a look at our picks for the best long-distance movers in New York. How can I see all moving companies in New York? You can see all moving companies in New York in our comprehensive list of New York movers. Helpful New York resources New York moving services Popular cities Not what you were looking for? Check out other categories that can help you find the information you need!
