By Katie Vu Finding the right mover can be daunting. With so many moving companies, how do you know whom to trust? There are tons of options, from big names to small mom-and-pop operations. Some have decades of experience, while others are just starting out. Picking the right mover won’t just happen. It will take a bit of research as well as a few guiding principles. At United Van Lines, we want to make your move as easy and worry-free as possible. Here are some tips and guidelines for finding the best moving company for your unique needs. Moving companies can offer a wide variation of service levels, from basic to comprehensive. For example, a full-service, long-distance mover such as United can provide packing and unpacking, storage, debris removal, vehicle transport and other options according to your needs and preferences. Moreover, we will help you customize your move in a way that works best for you. Satisfied customers are the best endorsement for any long-distance mover. You can also check review sites such as Yelp and Angi, as well as local realtors and contractors. After all, these types of businesses work with movers all the time. You can verify movers’ licenses and years in business on sites maintained by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Better Business Bureau (BBB). With these credentials in hand, you can reference the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) to see if a mover is federally licensed for interstate moving. If this top-level research turns up any red flags, proceed with caution. Reputable movers like United will never give you a quote without an in-person or virtual survey of your home and possessions. That said, you should also be aware of the two types of estimates your mover could provide: A valuation option determines the maximum liability for any loss or damage caused by your mover. Liability is based on mover rate schedules, federal laws and regulations, and there are certain limitations and exclusions. All interstate movers are liable for transported goods, no exceptions. There are different liability levels, so understanding their differences is important. Every year, thousands of American households are affected by fraud in the interstate moving market. Often criminals posing as legitimate movers offer low initial estimates, then hold a customer’s possessions hostage until receiving additional payments. To avoid becoming victims of these or other moving scams, be aware of the following red flags: If you’ve been scammed, seek help. You can find tips and resources through MoveRescue, an industry-endorsed program providing moving education and anti-fraud support. Why not let a professional moving company, United Van Lines, take care of the heavy lifting? United’s full-service moving packages provide flexibility to mix and match the services you want and need, from packing and unpacking to standard furniture placement. Get a cross-country moving quote from United Van Lines today. Want to get ahead of planning your move? Check out our week-by-week moving checklists and packing tips. If you prefer access to these pro-tips on-the-go, our exclusive House Key magazine is for you. Searching for your state and city? Look no further than our state and city guides that are packed with things you want to know, including cost of living, neighborhoods, culture and more. Categories Share
