Hire Movers in Jackson, NJ HireAHelper makes it easy to book affordable move helpers in Jackson. Compare moving companies, get an instant estimate, and book movers online. Top-Rated Hourly Moving Help, In Your Local Area With HireAHelper, you can read reviews, compare movers, and research moving costs in Jackson—all in one place. When you hire moving labor through us, we act as your advocate, stepping in if something goes wrong. If your mover cancels, we help you rebook fast. No extra legwork needed. The Cost of Hiring Movers in Jackson, NJ How Booking With HireAHelper Works Step 1: You Share Your Details Give us the key details about your upcoming move—like your move date, home size, and any stairs or heavy items that might require extra help. Step 2: We Find Your Move Helpers We instantly match you with the best-value moving companies near you, using proprietary data from over 850,000 HireAHelper moves. Step 3: You Select Your Movers Review your moving quote and hire your movers in just a few clicks. And if you need help, you can call or chat with us 7 days a week—before, during, or after your move. The HireAHelper Moving Advantage The Traditional Move Moving With HireAHelper Compare confidently. See prices upfront and read verified reviews—no surprises, no games. Book instantly. Book movers directly online, with no middlemen or unwanted spam. Get real support. Friendly, helpful humans available 7 days a week. Backed by our guarantee. Our $1,000 Service Guarantee means peace of mind if things don't go as planned. Compare the Top 14 Jackson, NJ Movers For over 18 years, HireAHelper has partnered with top-rated moving companies to help over 1 million people complete successful moves. With real customer reviews, free estimates, upfront pricing, and no hidden fees, you always know what to expect before you book. $125/hr After 2 movers 2 hr min Top Shelf Labor Services LLC Raritan, NJ 3,019 moves with HireAHelper $150/hr After 2 movers 2 hr min H&M Movers Croydon, PA 1,724 moves with HireAHelper $99/hr After 2 movers 2 hr min RIGHT BUDGET LABOR SERVICE Neptune, NJ 1,262 moves with HireAHelper $85/hr After 2 movers 2 hr min Adelphia moving Philadelphia, PA 515 moves with HireAHelper $150/hr After 2 movers 2 hr min B & T PROFESSIONAL MOVING & LABOR Cherry Hill, NJ 134 moves with HireAHelper $199/hr After 2 movers 2 hr min Marie's Miracle Movers LLC Philadelphia, PA 109 moves with HireAHelper $100/hr After 2 movers 2 hr min Reliable moving and labor Matawan, NJ 173 moves with HireAHelper $125/hr After 2 movers 2 hr min Tetris master movers South Plainfield, NJ 167 moves with HireAHelper $200/hr After 2 movers 2 hr min STRONGMILE MOVERS LLC Metuchen, NJ 249 moves with HireAHelper $130/hr After 2 movers 2 hr min 3m Movers Lakewood, NJ 422 moves with HireAHelper $115/hr After 2 movers 3 hr min SMOOTH MOVES NJ Burlington, NJ 1 move with HireAHelper $90/hr After 2 movers 2 hr min The Moving Hawks Brooklyn, NY $100/hr After 2 movers 2 hr min Happy Ending Movers LLC Old Bridge, NJ 1 move with HireAHelper $160/hr After 2 movers 2 hr min Royalty Moving systems LLC Carteret, NJ The Cost of Moving in Jackson, NJ In Jackson labor-only moving help typically costs between $339.56 and $739.66. If you’re tackling a smaller job, like unloading a PODS-style container, moving into a storage unit, or just need help with the heavy lifting, you can hire hourly moving labor for around $86.98 an hour. Find a lower price for the same move? We’ll match it. You can book with the confidence that you are getting the best value for your move. Learn more. The Cost of Labor-Only vs. Local-Full Service Even after factoring in the cost of a rental truck, gas, and supplies, labor-only moving usually costs less than half of what you’d pay for local full-service. Full-service is definitely more convenient—but that convenience comes at a price. For more on the difference between labor-only and local full-service moves, read below. Labor-Only Local-Full Service Jackson, NJ $442.75 $1,145.95 New Jersey $450.92 $1,188.29 The United States $451.87 $1,167.76 Did you know? More than 1 out of 3 HireAHelper customers use their move helpers to load or unload their PODS container. Labor-Only Moving Costs by Move Size As mentioned above, it costs $442.75 on average to hire moving helpers (labor-only) in Jackson, NJ, with an average hourly rate of $86.98. Your final price will depend on how long your move takes. To get a better sense of what your move might cost, you can see the average cost for different-sized moves in the table below. Learn more about HireAHelper's methodology for calculating average costs based on proprietary data from over 1 million moves. Home Size Average Cost Average # of Movers Average # of Hours 1 Bedroom Apartment $339.56 2 movers 2.2 hours 2 Bedroom Apartment $390.86 2 movers 2.4 hours 3 Bedroom Apartment $456.16 2 movers 2.7 hours 2 Bedroom House $447.80 2 movers 2.6 hours 3 Bedroom House $521.64 2 movers 2.7 hours 4 Bedroom House $625.82 3 movers 3.1 hours 5 Bedroom House $739.66 3 movers 3.9 hours What Is Labor-Only? When most people think of a moving company, they picture a full-service crew that loads, drives, and unloads everything. For in-town moves, this is known as local full-service. Labor-only moving works differently. You handle the transportation (like a rental truck or PODS container) and we connect you with professional moving contractors to help load or unload your furniture and boxes. While labor-only requires a bit more work on your end to coordinate all the details, it’s considerably more affordable. Full-Service Moving Labor-Only Moving Price $$$ $ Moving Truck Included You Provide Loading Help ✅ ✅ Unloading Help ✅ ✅ Packing Add-on Add-on Prefer hands-off? If you’d rather skip the driving and prioritize convenience, you can book a vetted full-service moving company right through HireAHelper. 5,250 Jackson Mover Reviews On average, movers on HireAHelper earn 4.8 stars out of 5.0 after 322,914 verified customer reviews HireAHelper's Moving Guide for Jackson Why Book Your Jackson Move with HireAHelper? Frequently Asked Moving Questions in Jackson You've got moving questions, we’ve got answers. Learn what to expect when moving in Jackson. The short answer is that booking with HireAHelper saves you hours of work, helps you get the best price and value, and protects you and your belongings. Here are some of the key ways HireAHelper makes booking movers better: Vetted Movers You Can Trust: Every mover on our platform is vetted, background-checked, and held to our high standards. And if anything goes wrong, we act as your advocate to find a resolution with your mover. If we can’t find a resolution, our $1,000 Service Guarantee will cover you and your items. Book in Minutes, Not Hours: Contacting multiple local movers, comparing quotes, determining their availability, and researching their reputation can take hours of work . On the other hand, HireAHelper lets you easily compare the reputation of movers, instantly determine availability, see transparent pricing for each, and book online in just a few clicks —even same-day in many areas. Dedicated Customer Support: Last minute questions are normal, and our experienced and friendly team is here 7 days a week to help with anything before, during, or after your move. Smart, Affordable Protection Options: HireAHelper offers an easy and affordable way to protect your items during a labor-only move. Our optional SmartProtection covers up to $10,000 worth of belongings, and the lowest tier ($2,500) is only $19. Best Price Guarantee: All these benefits must come at a higher price, right? Wrong. HireAHelper’s platform lets you compare rates for different movers, so you can be sure you’re getting a good deal. Found a better price for the same service? We’ll match it. That means you don’t pay extra to use HireAHelper—in fact, you may save money. All Jackson movers listed on HireAHelper are required to provide standard repair coverage, which reimburses $0.60 per pound for damaged items. Some states may have different rules, and full-value protection is only required by the federal government for moves that cross state lines. One of the advantages of booking with HireAHelper is that every move includes our $1,000 Service Guarantee. Plus, you can upgrade your protection by adding SmartProtection™—an optional coverage for labor-only moves that offers up to $10,000 in damage coverage, with multiple tiers to choose from. Yes, professional movers will typically disassemble and reassemble furniture as part of the moving process. However, there are certain items that movers may not be able to disassemble. Learn more about how furniture disassembly and reassembly works when you hire movers. One set of stairs is always included in your mover’s rate when you book through HireAHelper, but additional sets of stairs may cost more. The best way to get an accurate estimate is to get a quote and indicate the number of sets of stairs that you have—make sure to include stairs leading to a basement if you will have any items that need to be moved into or out of it. Read more about when movers charge extra for stairs. You should start packing at least three to four weeks before your move, but the sooner the better. If you need to downsize or organize, we recommend starting that process 6-8 weeks before your move when at all possible. Need to move in a hurry or don’t have time to pack? HireAHelper makes it easy to add professional packing as an add-on to your move. When available, you can get packing help for just several rooms or your whole home. For helpful tips, step-by-step guides, and checklists, go to our packing hub. Resources for Your Move Whether you are just starting to plan for your move, or you are dreaming about packing boxes in your sleep, we are here to help. We have loads of advice from professional movers to make your move as smooth as possible.
