Where do you need Gardeners? You can find the best Gardeners on Bark. Start your search and get free quotes now! First time looking for a Gardener and not sure where to start? Tell us about your project and we’ll send you a list of Gardeners to review. There’s no pressure to hire, so you can compare profiles, read previous reviews and ask for more information before you make your decision. Best of all - it’s completely free! Are you searching for a reliable and high-quality gardener to care for your precious plants on a long-term basis? Perhaps you need an expert eye to show you how to best utilise your land for a new garden plan. Tell us your needs and we’ll find the best gardener for you. Once we know the services you need a gardener for, we’ll provide you with a range of quotes from a variety of professionals to fit your needs. You can be notified at every new quote, or check in on the quotes when it suits you. Your garden is a special place that can offer a whole range of possibilities. Using the individual profile pages, customer reviews, and direct contact with the professionals, Bark allows you to be certain in your horticultural choices. East South Central Middle Atlantic New England Pacific South Atlantic West North Central Spruce up your green space with these expert gardening tips How many other jobs allow you to work in the sunshine, expand your creative mind, and also let you physically craft something beautiful? There’s nothing greater than stepping back from a project you’ve been working on for weeks and then seeing it in its full glory. Being able to provide an environment where bees can flourish and areas for kids to be able to play is one of the best ways I could possibly spend my time. I also love having regular gardens that I see every week or so. You develop a connection with them and it’s spectacular to watch the annual cycles. I have a postgraduate diploma in garden design and a selection of diplomas covering Forestry and Arboriculture. I am fully certified in the use of chainsaws, the ethical use of pesticides, and wood chippers. I have completed apprenticeships in forestry, nursery practice, and garden maintenance. In the past, I have worked for the council and private gardening businesses before setting up on my own. You should work with me because I am a highly trained, very experienced professional. If you are looking to simply refresh and neaten your garden for the upcoming summer, or are planning to completely redesign the land, I will provide quality results. We can discuss different plans for the garden of your dreams and work out how best to make a garden work for you. If you have a disability, we can look into the easiest way to create garden setups with wheelchair access. If you want to create a haven for wildlife, I’ll advise you on the best plants, trees and designs to encourage critters to move in. based on 66,205 reviews I HIGHLY recommend this company. If you’re looking for some honest upfront help for your home project , In and Out should be your first choice. I had a last minute job for a rental property in the Historic District that I needed taken care of ASAP before I had to leave town. In and Out responded promptly and I was able to discuss what I needed in more detail and line up a service date and time. They did an EXCELLENT job, communication was great and they were professional to work with. In and Out worked quickly and did what was agreed upon and more. After the job was done, I was asked to inspect it and paid at that time. I now have the company’s contact number in my phone for future use. It was a relief to find a company that I can now contact when I need some help in the future. The owner was a pleasure to work with. 14 Nov 2025 It was great, good person very professional 14 Nov 2025 I HIGHLY recommend this company. If you’re looking for some honest upfront help for your home project , In and Out should be your first choice. I had a last minute job for a rental property in the Historic District that I needed taken care of ASAP before I had to leave town. In and Out responded promptly and I was able to discuss what I needed in more detail and line up a service date and time. They did an EXCELLENT job, communication was great and they were professional to work with. In and Out worked quickly and did what was agreed upon and more. After the job was done, I was asked to inspect it and paid at that time. I now have the company’s contact number in my phone for future use. It was a relief to find a company that I can now contact when I need some help in the future. The owner was a pleasure to work with. 14 Nov 2025 How much does a Gardener cost? Your expert gardener will be able to advise you on the full range of services available and will be able to advise on what work needs to be done. They will also be able to answer any questions you may have. Use Bark to get free quotes and schedule a visit today. What services do Gardeners offer? Gardeners offer a whole host of services. These include the following: Garden maintenance - Gardeners are trained to assist with a whole host of gardening services which include pruning, weeding, planting, feeding, tending to allotments, hedge cutting, hedge trimming, putting up trellises, mulching, laying decorative bark and planting consultation among others. Garden clearance - They can also assist with garden clearance as having a messy garden can really lessen the appeal of your home both to yourself and to visitors. A well-maintained garden can also increase the value of your home. Garden advice - Some companies offer gardening consultation services to advise on suitable new plants and changes that you would implement yourself. Landscaping - landscape gardeners can also offer hard landscaping services such as laying new patios, new decking, new turf for a lawn or building garden buildings such as sheds and bike storage areas. Garden design - Your gardener may also offer garden design services as well as maintenance services. Jet washing - Jet washing can help to immediately improve the appearance of patios and gardens and is offered by many gardening companies. Sourcing and supplying - Your gardener can also source and supply plants, trees, planters and other garden items such as sculptures for your garden. Waste removal - Many firms can also remove huge amounts of waste as part of their services. What should I consider before deciding on hiring a Gardening company? Benefits - Most gardening companies have a unique selling point and a specific reason to choose them over providers. These could include being a specialist in small gardens, formal gardens and country gardens. Prices - Most gardeners do not offer exact prices on their websites as every garden is so different but they can give you a guideline. Contact methods - Professional gardening firms would offer several contact methods such as phone number, contact form and email on their website. They would also come back to you quickly to discuss the proposed work. Organisation stamps - Gardening organisation membership can be proof of quality and high standard of work. Training - It is a good idea to ask if the professional has some form of gardening training to give you peace of mind. Read reviews - Take a look at the reviews on Bark or on the company’s website. Third-party reviews will give you a good overview of the company’s customer satisfaction and service quality. Quotation - Most gardening professionals will do quotations as part of their service so you can explain in detail what you want to be done in the garden. The company will be able to give you a price estimate after an onsite visit. How do I check a Gardening professional’s credentials? You could look for gardeners with diplomas, associate degrees, bachelor degrees or certificates in horticulture, landscape design or garden design. The Royal Horticultural Society (RHS) is the UK’s leading gardening charity and runs specialist gardening courses for basic and advanced level gardeners. Before you choose a gardener, you could read testimonials and read details of their services on their website. You could also use Bark to look at their profile page and gardening reviews from past customers too. This might also help you get some ideas for the gardening service you want to book.
