Electricians need specialist tools to do their job effectively and safely, so their tool kit should include a range of heavy-duty, insulated hand tools and high-tech tools they can use wherever their work takes them. Beyond the practical tools needed to do their job, there are also software tools available to help electrical contractors manage their business and juggle the everyday demands of taking calls, scheduling bookings, dispatching techs to jobs, and marketing the business. Below, we review what we consider to be the 39 best electrician tools and apps in these two categories: If you are looking for a list of tools to help you manage and grow your electrical business, you can skip ahead to the section on ServiceTitan’s electrical contractor software. Note: Want to grow your electrical business? ServiceTitan is the #1 home and commercial service software & mobile app for home service companies. Get a free and personalized demo. Electrical Tools You Need to Do Your Job 1. Pliers Pliers — often referred to as cutting pliers or lineman’s pliers — are a staple on any electrician’s tool belt. They are mainly used as cutting tools like wire cutters and cable cutters, or for gripping, twisting, bending, or straightening wires. Any prepared electrician stocks an array of pliers in their toolbox or truck, including needle-nose pliers/long-nose pliers, side-cutting pliers (also known as diagonal cutting pliers), and reaming pliers for tightening locknuts, fittings, and caps. Klein Tools, for example, manufactures a popular and trusted line of pliers focused on electrical applications. Plan to spend: $15–$70 Buying options: 2. Cutting Tools Every electrician needs to carry wire cutters and cable cutters that have been designed for cutting wires and cables with minimal damage to insulation or internal conductors. This helps improve the quality of the connection and protects its integrity. Electricians also use a special utility knife called an electrician’s knife for cutting and stripping cables and cutting electrical tape and insulation. Plan to spend: $10–$40 Buying options: 3. Screwdrivers Electricians carry a variety of high-quality insulated screwdrivers, or a screwdriver set, in their tool bag. These are used for loosening and fastening various pieces of hardware such as a GFCI (ground-fault circuit interrupter). As well as carrying basics such as Phillips screwdrivers and nut drivers, many professionals carry ergonomic ratchet screwdrivers with interchangeable bits, so they're never stuck without the proper electrical maintenance tool. Plan to spend: $10–$70 Buying options: 4. Crimper An electrician needs a crimping tool to install a connector on the end of a cable. This is done by placing the connector into the crimper and then placing the exposed wire at the end of the cable into the connector. Plan to spend: $25–$60 Buying options: 5. Tape Measure When working with wiring, it's essential to know exact measurements when cutting and stripping. A simple retractable tape measure does the trick, but available models with magnetic tips, multi-step locks, and other features make this process easier. Plan to spend: $10–$40 Buying options: 6. Electrical Tape Made from plastic, vinyl/PVC, or fiberglass cloth, this adhesive material is pressure sensitive and essential for insulating wires or other materials that conduct electricity. Electrical tape prevents the electrical current from accidentally passing to other wires, and possible electrocution from touching live wires. Plan to spend: $2–$10 Buying options: 7. Cable Ties Also known as zip ties, these inexpensive fasteners are essential tools for binding electrical cables or wires together. Keep your electrical space neat and organized with cable ties. Plan to spend: $5–$12 Buying options: 8. Electric Drills Electricians regularly install new lighting fixtures or need to disassemble installed hardware to access wiring and other electrical components. A handheld electric drill with various bits helps speed up these tasks — and allows professionals to affix specialty drill bits (like the reaming bit covered below) for industry-specific purposes. Cordless drills are essential tools for electricians working when power is down. DeWalt and Milwaukee make some popular power tools for electricians, including corded and cordless electric drills. Plan to spend: $30–$200 Buying options: 9. Level When installing light fixtures, finding precise points for placement is key. An electrical tools list isn’t complete without a standard level, as it helps electricians ensure fixtures, screws, and other installations are placed exactly where they need to be. Plan to spend: $10–$40 Buying options: 10. Wire/Cable Lugs Similar to the features used on jumper cables and car batteries, wire and cable lugs connect wires to appliances, cables, and other devices in need of power. Plan to spend: $10–$20 Buying options: 11. Coax Connector Coax connectors link cables to devices, while simultaneously protecting the cable from shredding. Multiple connectors exist, and keeping a variety in your tool pouch ensures you always meet your customers’ needs. Plan to spend: $5–$10 Buying options: The #1 newsletter for the trades. 12. Wire Strippers Professional electricians regularly strip the plastic sheathing from wires to expose the copper and make customized connections with other wiring or components. Wire stripping tools come in a variety of models and types. Plan to spend: $10–$40 Buying options: 13. Fish Tape Fish tape is one of many popular electrician tools. It’s used to run wiring between gang boxes (or other electrical components) through conduit piping. Fish tape is housed in a retractable coil and can be fed through installed conduit piping. Once the end of the fish tape appears on the opposite side, wiring can be hooked to the tape and the tape can be retracted — pulling the wire along the conduit. Plan to spend: $15–$30 Buying Options: 14. Fishing Rods Fishing rods are essential electrician tools when installing wire through walls (including drywall), below carpets, or above ceilings. Rods are typically fiberglass and include hooks on the end for easy maneuvering. These are particularly useful when working in tight spaces. Plan to spend: $15–$30 Buying options: 15. Terminal Block These modular, insulated devices assist electricians when grouping multiple wires together. They’re used to connect wiring to a ground or connect electrical switches and outlets to mains. Plan to spend: $10–$25 Buying options: 16. Electrical Tester An electrical tester is a tool kit staple. This can be used as a locator of electrical conditions rather than a device to measure voltage (see voltage tester below). Plan to spend: $30–$80 Buying options: 17. Voltage Tester To safely perform electrical work, electrical power must be cut off in key sections of the property (usually via the circuit breaker). Electricians need a handheld voltage tester to test outlets for power, so they know when they’re safe to work on and also to confirm power has been restored. Alternatively, non-contact voltage testers can be used to sense a small amount of current and light up when they detect one, without actually touching any surface or wiring. Plan to spend: $20–$40 Buying options: 18. Multimeters and Clamp Meters In addition to a voltage tester, an electrician’s tool set should include a digital multimeter which tests more than whether voltage is present. A multimeter is a diagnostic tool used to measure electrical values — voltage (volts), current (amps), and resistance (ohms). Electricians also use a clamp meter to measure current without interrupting the circuit. This is a useful tool for taking measurements in tight spaces. Plan to spend: $20–$40 Buying options: 19. Reaming Bit Installing new conduits (or replacing old ones) means connecting segments of piping together to create a wiring route between electrical components. A reaming bit attaches to an electric drill and widens the opening on one end of the piping, allowing it to connect to another segment of piping and complete a secure conduit. Plan to spend: $15–$40 Buying options: 20. Conduit Bender When determining a wiring route, electricians often run wiring along the corner of the wall or in other mostly hidden areas. Conduit benders are electrician tools used to curve conduit piping to accommodate these routes and ensure the conduits remain nonintrusive and efficiently placed in the customer’s home. Plan to spend: $20–$100 Buying options: 21. Splicing Connector These plastic clips help electricians make quick connections with multiple pieces of wire. They can be used with multiple cables, including device wires, telephone cables, and electrical cables. Plan to spend: $15–$30 Buying options: 22. Flashlights For an electrician, working in the dark is a potential hazard. Keep essential electrician tools — like flashlights and other various work lights — handy and within reach. Plan to spend: $10–$100 Buying options: Electrician Tools for Staying Safe 23. Insulated Gloves Electrocution poses real danger for electricians, so they need to take precautions. Wearing insulated gloves provides another layer of protection from electric shocks, so include them as one of your electrical maintenance tools. Insulated gloves come in various styles for fit and comfort, so choose the type that works best for you. Plan to spend: $25–$40 Buying options: 24. Fire-Resistant Work Shirt Skilled and trained electricians learn how to take precautions against dangerous arc flashes, electrocutions and fires. Part of this training includes making sure they wear work shirts made with fire-resistant material to prevent serious burn injuries. Plan to spend: $30–$50 Buying options: 25. Safety Glasses Electricians need to protect their eyes when closely examining electrical wiring, when they cut wire, or when they operate power tools. Apprentices and seasoned veterans alike need a pair of safety glasses on hand at every job site, as part of their essential electrician tools. Plan to spend: $15–$20 Buying options: 26. Rescue Rod/Hook Rescue rods (or hooks) are used to remove large items or unconscious people who have been electrocuted from a hazardous area. Because a dangerous electrical current may still be live, emergency first-responders must use the rescue rod to pull a victim away from the electrical source without getting electrocuted themselves. Plan to spend: $100–$300 Buying options: High-Tech Electrician Tools 27. Circuit Analyzers A circuit analyzer, a digital handheld electrician tool, provides instant information about the circuit connected to an individual outlet. In seconds, these electrical maintenance tools measure voltage, polarity, line voltage, reversals, and more. Plan to spend: $10–$80 Buying options: 28. Circuit Breaker Finders Electricians often find it difficult to know which outlets are connected to which circuits in a house. Modern electricians use circuit breaker finders with two main components incorporated into the device: a handheld digital transmitter and a small receiver that plug into outlets around the home. When an electrician holds up the transmitter to circuits in the breaker, the device sends a signal to the receiver to indicate which circuit the outlet belongs to. Plan to spend: $16–$40 Buying options: ServiceTitan’s 11 Software Tools to Manage and Grow Your Electrical Business We listed physical tools for doing electrical work above. In this section, we'll list tools for growing an electrical business from our software solution, ServiceTitan. This is a space where we have years of experience of helping 100,000+ contractors, including electricians, grow and run their businesses successfully. Our tools include: 29. Electrical Dispatch Software: Save time and turn dispatching from haphazard to a smooth operation. 30. Scheduling and Booking Software: Plan ahead for regular electrical jobs and never miss another one. 31. Marketing Software: See what marketing and ad campaigns work best so you can do more of what works — and less of what doesn’t. 32. Reporting Software: Track your team’s performance at a glance. 33. Financing Options: On-the-spot instant approval financing plans for expensive jobs. 34. Business Valuation Calculator: Check how much your business is worth right now. 35. Invoice Generator: Use our free tool to generate invoices online that can be sent to customers. 36. Labor Rate Calculator: Quickly figure out how much to charge for your electrical services. 37. ROI Calculator: Discover the potential profit you can generate by using ServiceTitan. 38. Service Business Grader: See how your business is performing in 30 seconds or less. 39. Mobile App & Tablet: Make it easy for customers to order, buy, and pay for electrical services. For other helpful guides, check out our lists of best HVAC tools and plumbing tools. To find out more about ServiceTitan, the #1 home and commercial service software, book a free demo. ServiceTitan Electrical Software ServiceTitan is a comprehensive electrical business software solution built specifically to help service companies streamline their operations, boost revenue, and achieve growth. Our award-winning, cloud-based platform is trusted by more than 100,000+ contractors across the country.
