The U.S. government does not pay medical costs for U.S. citizens traveling abroad. Plan ahead in case of any hospital visits, emergencies, or other unexpected expenses during your trip. There are different kinds of travel or trip insurance that can protect your health, your trip, and your finances. Here are the main types to consider: We recommend that you buy travel health insurance before your trip. U.S. Medicare and Medicaid do not pay for medical care outside the United States. Check with your U.S. health insurance provider and ask if they cover emergency and routine medical care while abroad. If your regular medical insurance does not cover you, consider getting a short-term policy. There are some policies that make direct payments to hospitals. For more information, review the CDC insurance page. We strongly recommended that you buy medical evacuation insurance when traveling to areas with higher risk or limited medical care. You can purchase this separately or as an add-on to your travel health insurance policy. Most policies cover medical care and emergency transportation. This kind of insurance helps you get your money back if you need to cancel or change travel plans like flights, cruises, or train trips.. It usually does not pay for medical costs in other countries. If you plan to drive in another country, your U.S. auto insurance might not cover you abroad. Your U.S. auto policy also needs to meet local insurance requirements. Check with your provider before traveling. Car rental companies sometimes offer auto insurance options to cover you during your trip. Travel insurance can be very different from one policy to another. Review the policy carefully. Make sure it covers items like: Validity in counties you plan to visit Length of your trip Emergency medical care Medical transportation back to the United States Travel and lodging expenses Cash for emergencies All current medical conditions for you and your family Activities you plan to participate in Find out if the insurance company has a 24-hour help line to call during your trip. Medical services while abroad Review the Health section of the Travel Guidance for your destination.
