Together we will get you the tech career you deserve with industry-leading certifications, training, and expert knowledge. Unlock your potential in tech Together we will get you the tech career you deserve with industry-leading certifications, training, and expert knowledge. NOW AVAILABLE FOR PRE-ORDER Lead the future of security with SecAI+ AI is reshaping how organizations detect, investigate, and respond to threats. CompTIA SecAI+ is designed for cybersecurity and IT professionals who need to secure AI systems and use AI responsibly in security operations. Pre-order now to start planning how AI fits into your security strategy. Key Tech Statistics 130% higher median US salaries for tech than other careers, demonstrating the financial advantages and opportunities available in the tech industry. 7 in 10 companies recognize digital skills as a critical factor for their success, emphasizing the growing demand for a tech-savvy workforce in today's rapidly evolving digital economy. 2x growth rate in US tech occupations compared to national job growth over the next 10 years, highlighting the increasing demand for skilled tech workers. Real success stories Chris Bramwell Chief Privacy Officer, State of Utah “We knew as part of our maturity metrics and accountability, we wanted to show that we have staff that have the knowledge of cybersecurity and the Security+ certification itself provides that core knowledge we're looking for” Phil Bates CISO, State of Utah “Having a program like CompTIA is a repeatable process for us so if I've got to bring in new folks, having that base-level of talent you can go back to repeatedly and knowing you're going to get out of that is vital” Passion Meets Innovation: College of DuPage Prepares IT Students for Success The College of DuPage (COD) empowers students for success in the fast-paced world of IT through dedicated teaching, industry-relevant skills, and a long-standing partnership with CompTIA. CompTIA certifications play a key role in bridging the gap between education and workforce needs, giving students a competitive edge as they launch rewarding IT careers aligned with their passions. Together, COD and CompTIA inspire the next generation of IT professionals to thrive in a dynamic and ever-evolving field. CompTIA blog Your go-to blog for tech success Gain insight into a range of topics including career success stories, industry trends, cybersecurity and training resources to help individuals and organizations thrive in the tech industry. Stay connected Empower your career Stay connected with expert advice and updates.
