Certificate of Completion All paid HBS Online courses, with the exception of credential programs CORe and CLIMB, grant a Certificate of Completion. While each program can be completed on your own schedule, there are deadlines to ensure you’re progressing through the course in step with your peers and taking full advantage of all networking and social learning opportunities. To earn a Certificate of Completion, you must complete all coursework in a thoughtful and timely manner, including meeting required deadlines, finishing assignments, offering feedback on others’ reflections, and contributing to conversations on the course platform. Explore our Certificate FAQs for more information. Certificate of Specialization If you’ve finished an individual course and want to dive deeper into the subject, you might consider pursuing a Learning Track to earn a Certificate of Specialization. Learning Tracks enable you to take three existing HBS Online courses within a specific subject area. If completed successfully, you’ll earn a Certificate of Specialization, which can bolster your resume and signal to employers how committed you are to professional growth and lifelong learning. To earn a Certificate of Specialization, you must complete three courses from your selected Learning Track within 18 months. HBS Online currently offers a Learning Track in Leadership and Management, Strategy, Entrepreneurship and Innovation, Business in Society, Finance and Accounting, Digital Transformation and Marketing. To determine which courses qualify, visit our Leadership and Management, Strategy, Entrepreneurship and Innovation, Finance and Accounting, Business in Society, Digital Transformation and AI, and Marketing pages. Explore our Learning Track FAQs for more information. Credential of Leadership, Impact, and Management in Business A Credential of Leadership, Impact, and Management in Business (CLIMB) is granted to those who successfully complete CLIMB—a selective, cohort-based learning experience and HBS Online’s most comprehensive business offering. CLIMB enables new and experienced leaders to ignite their careers with a combination of essential and forward-looking business skills, self-reflection, and membership in a diverse global network of peers. The year-long program includes seven courses and a capstone project. Participants must complete CLIMB within two years to earn a credential. Explore our CLIMB FAQs for more information. Credential of Digital Innovation and Strategy A Credential of Digital Innovation and Strategy is granted to those who successfully complete all four courses in the program—Leading in the Digital World, Design Thinking and Innovation, Digital Marketing Strategy, and Winning with Digital Platforms—plus all peer learning activities and a capstone project. Participants must complete the Credential of Digital Innovation and Strategy within six months. Explore our program-specific FAQs for more information. HBS Online has traditionally offered an undergraduate credit option for CORe through Harvard Extension School during the January, May, and September cohorts. However, please note that the January 2026 cohort will be the last time that undergraduate credit is offered for CORe. By pursuing the for-credit option of CORe, you receive access to Harvard Extension School student resources, including libraries, career advising, workshops, and education tax credit and loan deferments. You may transfer the credit to your current institution, yet it is up to the accepting university to determine eligibility. Are you interested in taking the next step in your career? Explore our online course catalog to find the right fit. Hear from our learners Empower yourself with the knowledge and skills needed to excel in your career and achieve professional excellence. Here are a few organizations who have witnessed the remarkable impact that taking an HBS Online course can have. HBS Online has a real integration of knowledge, resources, and community. It offers immersive online learning, the best industry cases, and input from actual executives at industry-leading companies. In a nutshell, HBS Online allows us to meet our business needs in real time. Our employees at Fortive have gained tremendous value through our work with HBS Online. They help us deliver on our L&D promise: Accessible Learning, Accelerated Growth. HBS Online offers courses with a range of topics and time commitments. We have had employees participate from over 35 countries! We leverage HBS Online’s programs to reach employees and executives across our global organization. Participants develop a practical understanding of critical topics like strategic thinking, innovation, management, finance, and negotiations – all rooted in a social learning environment. This approach has made them more effective and engaged members of our organization, and eager to learn more.
