Our school years are the best years of our lives, or so we’re lead to believe. And that’s true for some. But public schooling is normative - the teaching sits somewhere in the middle: nothing too simple, nothing too advanced. And that’s fine if your child has an average learning capacity. But if your child has learning difficulties or is a high achiever, they get left behind. The child with learning difficulties gets lost and just ends up staring out of the window, and the high achievers get bored and begin to play up and disrupt the rest of the class. So, tutoring and tutoring franchises in the United States have a valuable place in the education system, offering support to high achieving children and those struggling to keep up. Tutoring is an area of massive growth in the US, with growth of 8% projected by 2025 and a market value of $8.37 bn. Taking on a tutoring franchise offers the perfect entry into this highly lucrative sector. Parents and children have come to depend on tutoring franchise services to help students excel and find their confidence in the classroom. Tutoring franchises have become an essential part of the education industry, focusing on providing students with supplemental learning and effective preparation for tests. Franchising Franchising is often considered the common-sense way of becoming your own boss. Think about it: when you start a business, nobody knows about you. You spend the first couple of years developing a reputation, and it’s only then that you really start to maximize your earning potential. You reinvest a lot of your income in those early days to marketing and advertising, and you’re lucky if you break even. Franchising, on the other hand, is different. You inherit a fully formed business that already has a reputation, a customer base, and an instantly recognizable brand identity. And over the years, parents across the nation have demonstrated a willingness to invest their money in their children's educational development. But parents want to spend their hard-earned money wisely. So, reassure them with a sound, inherited reputation right from the start. All businesses rely on reputation, so the parent company of your tutoring franchise will ensure that your skills are top-notch. When you invest your money in their brand, they invest their time in training you to maintain their reputation and help the brand grow. Tutoring, of course, is the best part of learning for many kids and the best part of teaching for many trained teachers. Being in control of a classroom can be stressful, but teaching small groups or individual students is usually much calmer and more stress-free. You develop a trusting relationship with your students, and it's gratifying to see them thrive. So, if you're looking for independence and freedom in the way you pursue your teaching career, a tutoring franchise can undoubtedly help you get onto the road to success. Don't forget that - with a tutoring franchise - you inherit the parent company's instantly recognizable branding, giving parents reassurance that you're the person to guide their child to succeed. Facts About Tutoring Franchises Tutoring offers genuine freedom for teachers, allowing them to travel to students' homes to teach or to set up a classroom venue for themselves. Tutoring franchises provide great workplace flexibility. Many tutoring franchises are home-based - with tutors providing private learning services at their own homes or travelling to student's houses. But homes aren't always the best environment for learning, so some tutors operating from local cafes, libraries, or wherever is most convenient and comfortable for the individual student. This flexibility means that - unless you operate from a premises - the overheads are low, making tutoring franchises a savvier investment than most other child-related franchises. Most states regulate child education businesses, requiring special certification and licensing. This can be a complicated process for an individual, but it's usually the parent company that ensures that all regulations are met for a tutoring franchise. Tutoring franchises can specialize in specific subjects - say math or music - but, increasingly, many franchisees are diversifying their reach by offering various subjects through subcontracting to fellow tutors. Again, this is an excellent way to build your personal brand within the franchise model. Franchising Vs. Independent Tutoring franchisees often hit the ground running when they start operating their franchise. The instantly recognizable branding they inherit from the parent company helps establish their business swiftly, turning a profit more quickly than independent businesses. Independent businesses frequently struggle within the first three years of operation as they slowly establish their reputation over time. Unfortunately, many independent companies go into receivership within these difficult initial years before they’ve recouped their initial investment. Taking on a franchise requires an investment of between $20k and upwards of $150k. Of course, most people need to rely on banks or moneylenders to raise the necessary capital to get started. Luckily, banks and moneylenders favor the franchise model because the business is built upon proven metrics. The franchise business model works because the parent company has already proven that the operation turns around a healthy profit, with the potential to expand and sustain itself; most importantly, demonstrating an ability to pay back their startup loans. On the other hand, independent companies often struggle to achieve startup costs because they can't prove the viability of their business model. So, when indies do achieve startup funds, it's usually on less favorable terms than franchises. Almost 50% of all indies struggle to penetrate the saturated marketplace because they find themselves in direct competition with established businesses and franchises. Unfortunately, that also means that nearly half of all indies go bankrupt before they recoup their initial investment. Franchises have the guidance and expertise of their established partner to help them weather the early years. They also have instantly recognizable branding, access to a supply chain, and a tangible reputation of trust that parents seek when choosing a tutor for their child. Tutoring Franchises Check out Franchise Direct's great selection of tutoring franchises and get America's kids excelling and positively impacting the future of the United States. You can also check out many more exciting opportunities, such as Children's Franchises and Child Care Franchises, here on Franchise Direct.
