LIMITED-TIME OFFER: $7,500 OFF FRANCHISE FEE! Start your own tutoring business for just $19,750 (regularly $27,250) The tutoring market is booming — and you can own a piece of it. Parents are investing in their kids’ education more than ever, creating massive demand for one-on-one and online tutoring services. Club Z! is the nation’s largest in-home and online tutoring company with 350+ locations across North America. Our award-winning model makes it simple to launch your business quickly with full training, ongoing support, and a proven system. Most locations begin in less than 30 days from the date of purchase. Why Club Z! Is Different: Corporate Sales Center – Our corporate team can answer every call and even sell the program to parents and collect payment. Home-based, low overhead – No costly storefront required. Operate full-time or part-time – A perfect business for flexible entrepreneurs. No teaching experience required – You manage the business, we help you recruit tutors. All subjects, all ages – K-12, test prep (SAT/ACT), college, adult education, AI programs and even music lessons! Multiple revenue streams for year-round income. Proven, Profitable Model: Recurring Income with 60-70% gross profit margins Students improve an average of two letter grades in 60 days Online tutoring options double your reach and income potential Corporate-managed SAT/ACT and AI online classes earn up to 75% commission per enrollment Why Club Z! Franchisees Keep More of What They Earn: Our single-unit franchises average 46 active students every month – and because our model is home-based, you’re not paying expensive rent or overhead like a learning center would. That means a higher percentage of every dollar you bring in goes straight to your bottom line — and into your pocket. That’s why so many owners scale up to buying multiple territories—because the model produces year round cash flow that can be reinvested into growth. Translation: More Profit for You Fast Start, Full Support: Step-by-step training (online or at HQ in Tampa, FL). 24/7 access to our franchise support team and resources. Local and national marketing assistance. Access to school district and government contracts. Investment Highlights: LIMITED-TIME OFFER: Franchise fee just $19,750 (Save $7,500!). Total startup: $35,000 – $42,000 (including advertising). One of the lowest-cost franchises in education. Don’t just take our word for it; hear what our franchisees have to say… “The training and ongoing support we received from corporate are second to none. Your 3-step training program gave me all the confidence in the world that I was ready to succeed in this business. Your call center is amazing and always makes me look so professional. I couldn’t have done it without you. Thanks!” Jennifer Fahey – Chicago, IL “As a former business broker, I looked for an opportunity with low overhead and high profitability. The support and guidance is everything I expected and more. If you follow the steps and take advantage of their expertise along the way, you will be successful. Club Z! is constantly seeking to improve the model and stay on top of industry trends. The SAT/ACT test prep programs are simple to implement, and we’re absolutely thrilled with the results our students are achieving. Seeing their success makes everything we do so rewarding. Dennis Mullen – Boston, MA “After 10 years of running a successful Club Z!, we are still pleased with our decision to invest in the franchise and pay royalties because of the support we receive from the corporate office. The company continues to innovate and release new revenue sources for franchise owners without asking us for more money. Our accountant recently told us that Club Z! is the only franchise she can confidently recommend . ” NOTE: This web site is not a franchise offering. A franchise offering can be made by us in a state where we are first registered, excluded, exempted, or otherwise qualified to offer franchises in that state, and only if we provide you with a Franchise Disclosure Document. Individualized responses or communications to you that involve either effecting or attempting to effect the sale of a franchise will be made only if we are first in compliance with state registration requirements, or are covered by an applicable state exclusion or exemption. *These figures are taken from Club Z! Inc.’s Franchise Disclosure Document (FDD) Item 19 Financial Performance Representation issued June 1, 2021. There is no assurance you will achieve these sales figures. This information is not intended as an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy a franchise. We offer franchises solely by means of our FDD. See our FDD for important assumptions and qualifiers relating to these figures.
