It's Your Business. You have the freedom to create your own distinct environment while staying true to the Tutoring Club mission. Implement a flexible schedule of your choosing, build and manage your own team, and create customized academic plans for students based on situation. You're an Agent of Change. As a mentor and educator, you play an active role in changing your community one student at a time. Tutoring Club provides the platform to partner with other leaders in your community to foster progress. There's Never a Dull Moment. With programs that focus on early learning through full-service college planning, there is no such thing as a stale routine. At Tutoring Club, every day is different because every student is different. We Believe in Work-Life Balance. Our service is flexible in every sense of the word. With Tutoring Club, you enjoy the same schedule as your local schools, giving you time to enjoy life outside of the workplace. You're Part of the Club. We stay with you every step of the way, from initial training at our corporate headquarters to ongoing education in all aspects of franchise management. Your support network includes your fellow franchisees, many of whom have owned their locations for more than a decade. Your Service Matters. We are in the business of making better learners. While this certainly can yield a substantial bottom line, it also has a substantial impact on the lives of our students and their families, as well as the welfare of our communities. You Hit the Ground Running. We want you to experience financial success as soon as possible, so we keep our startup costs low. The Tutoring Club model requires little build out, and the equipment needed to run your center is far from cost prohibitive. You Spend Time with People, Not Supplies. Our service is dependent on people, not merchandise. Compared to most franchise models, Tutoring Club requires very little management of inventory. Established: 1991 First Unit Franchised: 2000 Franchised Units: 71 Company Owned Units: 11 States Registered In: California, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota New York, North Dakota, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Virginia, Washington, Wisconsin. Canada Franchises: Yes International Franchises: Yes Financial Assistance Provided: Yes Site Selection Assistance: Yes Lease Negotiation Assistance: Yes Recruiting Assistance: Yes Co-Operative Advertising: No Training: Though new franchisees start their journey with an initial three-week training at our corporate headquarters and highest-performing centers, our guidance does not stop there; we stay with them every step of the way, providing ongoing education in sales, education, accounting, operations, marketing, and everything else. What's more, their support network doesn't end with ownership- they will have a strong base of fellow franchisees to lean on, including many who have owned their locations for more than a decade. What does a The Tutoring Club Franchise Cost? The Tutoring Club franchise fees for 2025: Cash Investment: $34,500 Total Investment: $66,500 Minimum Net Worth: $50,000 Franchise Fee: $34,500 Royalty: 10% Ad: 1% Average Number of Employees: 8 Item 19: Yes SBA Approved: Yes Passive Ownership: Yes Home Based: No B2B: No Master Franchise Opportunities: Yes Veteran Discount: Yes Is The Tutoring Club a Semi Absentee Franchise with a Passive Ownership Opportunity? Yes. The Tutoring Club is a semi absentee franchise and allows passive ownership. A semi-absentee franchise is a business you could start and run while still maintaining a job or other obligation. Is The Tutoring Club a Home Based franchise? No. The Tutoring Club is not a home based franchise opportunity. What Do The Tutoring Club Franchise Owners Make? Click here to find out how much The Tutoring Club franchisees make. The Tutoring Club offers an Item 19 in their Franchise Disclosure Document which provides financial information about select franchisees in their franchise system. Is The Tutoring Club a Master Franchise Opportunity? Yes. The Tutoring Club is a master franchise opportunity. A master franchisee is responsible to recruit, train and support franchisees in their territory. Does The Tutoring Club Offer a Veteran Discount? Yes. The Tutoring Club franchise does offer a veteran discount. Does The Tutoring Club Work with E2 Visa and EB-5 Visa Candidates? No. The Tutoring Club franchise does not work with E2 Visa and EB-5 Visa candidates. Is The Tutoring Club Looking for Franchisees in Canada? Yes. The Tutoring Club franchise is looking for Canada franchisees. Is The Tutoring Club Looking for International franchisees? Yes. The Tutoring Club franchise is looking for International franchisees. Where can I see The Tutoring Club's FDD (Franchise Disclosure Document)? Buying a Franchise Guide: What is a Franchise Disclosure Document? When evaluating a franchise opportunity, reading and understanding the current version of their FDD is a necessity. Considering the benefits of franchising, such as established brand recognition and support from the franchisor, it's important to also take into account franchise fees and franchising royalty fees. Since most franchisors are privately owned companies, the current versions of their FDDs are typically not available unless requested directly from them. Click here to connect with a Franchise Consultant who can help you obtain a copy quickly and for free. They can also guide you through the essential franchise questions to ask, ensuring you make a well-informed decision about your investment. Additional Categories Child Related, Education, Non Food Franchises Number of Units Open 50-100 UNITS Cash Required $25,000 - $50,000 Franchise Opportunities in Canada Yes International Franchise Opportunities Yes Click Here to inquire about existing The Tutoring Club franchises for sale. We may have The Tutoring Club franchise resales. A franchise resale is an already established franchise owned by a franchisee and the franchisee is looking to sell their franchise. Gravity Extreme Zone, Best in Class Education Center, Apex Leadership, Above Grade Level In-Home Tutoring, College Nannies Sitters and Tutors, Pigtails & Crewcuts, Ctrl V, Rock and Roll Daycare, Soccer Shots, Bach to Rock, Destination Athlete, The Goddard School, D-BAT, Acti-Kare, Hi-Five Sports, Goldfish Swim School, Amazing Athletes, Little Medical School, Bricks & Minifigs, Ivy Kids Systems, Casa de Corazón, CodeFu, Kids 'R' Kids Learning Academies, Sylvan Learning, Children's Art Classes, Gymboree Play & Music, First Day Homecare The International Franchise Professionals Group (IFPG) is an internationally recognized membership-based franchise organization. IFPG Franchise Consultants guide aspiring business owners through the process of identifying and investing in franchise businesses. The IFPG represents more than 550 franchises. We do not represent all franchises listed here. By clicking on "Request a Consultation," you are agreeing to be contacted by one of our Certified Franchise Consultants to discuss franchise ownership. About our rankings: The IFPG uses its internal data collected from our membership portal to identify which franchises had the most activity in the past week. This ranking system is not based on franchise sales, franchisee success rates or number of units open. Our ranking system should not be used to make a decision on which franchise to buy it was solely created for internal purposes and for our IFPG Members.
