Streaming TV has become increasingly popular in recent years, offering a convenient and cost-effective way to access your favorite television shows and movies. With so many options available, it can be overwhelming for beginners to navigate the world of streaming. In this guide, we'll provide you with a comprehensive overview of everything you need to know to get started with streaming TV. ‍ Streaming TV refers to the delivery of television or TV shows and movies over the internet. Instead of broadcasting over the airwaves, streaming services make content available on-demand over the internet. This allows viewers to watch what they want, when they want. ‍ There are several benefits to streaming TV shows and movies, some will be more appealing to you depending on what your previous experience looked like. Streaming services typically cost less than traditional cable or satellite TV packages. Generally, just streaming costs an average of $10-$20 per month, it’s live TV that can start to push up costs. With streaming TV, you can watch what you want, when you want, and where you want, as long as you have an internet connection. Some streaming platforms even allow you to download content to watch offline. Streaming services offer a wider range of content than traditional TV packages, including original programming, documentaries, and foreign language shows. Most streaming TV services don't require a long-term contract, allowing you to cancel or switch services at any time. This gives you the flexibility to subscribe just for your favorite show and not have to pay for any installation or cancellation fees. ‍ We all have our preferences, even with types of streaming services. Here are some example of options you have. These services require a monthly fee and offer unlimited access to a library of content. Examples include Netflix, Hulu, and Amazon Prime Video. These services offer a limited selection of content for free, but you'll have to sit through ads. Examples include Tubi, Pluto TV, and IMDb TV. These services allow you to rent or buy individual movies or TV episodes. Examples include Amazon Video, Google Play, and iTunes. These services offer live access to TV channels, similar to traditional cable or satellite TV. Examples include Sling TV, YouTube TV, and Hulu + Live TV. ‍ Choosing a streaming service can be overwhelming, ultimately, it comes down to choosing the right service for your needs. Here are a few things to consider: Look for a service that offers the shows and movies you want to watch. Flume partnered with My Bundle to ensure you can pick the streaming channels right for you. Explore options and find your perfect fit here. Consider the monthly fee and any additional costs, such as renting or buying individual movies or TV episodes. Some typical fees for cable TV often include equipment, set up and installation, and cancellation. Make sure the streaming service you choose is compatible with the devices you want to watch on, such as your TV, phone, or tablet. You’ll also want to ensure you have a strong internet connection to stream smoothly without any buffering issues. Flume recommends fiber optic internet connections powered by a reliable Local Internet Service Provider (ISP) for the best streaming experience. Alternatively, try improving the quality of your current internet connection. Consider the ease of use and functionality of the service's user interface. For example, some streaming platforms won’t allow you to watch content if you use a VPN, this may cause disruption in your daily surfing regiment. Streaming can be fun for the whole family. But sometimes, content is only suitable for viewers of an appropriate age. If you’re worried about your child’s safety in the digital age, don’t worry, most streaming platforms today allow you to create passwords and child profiles! Take advantage of free trials to test out different services before committing to a monthly fee. To stream content, you'll need a device that's compatible with your chosen streaming service, such as a smart TV, streaming media player, game console, or smartphone. Once you've selected your service and device, simply download the app, connect to your Flume service, sign in, and start watching! Streaming TV offers a convenient and cost-effective way to access your favorite shows and movies. By considering your content preferences, cost, device compatibility, user interface, and taking advantage of free trials, you can choose the streaming service that best meets your needs. So grab some popcorn and start streaming! ‍
