As per the estimation given, there are 5.42 billion total social media users worldwide, with an average person using 6.83 different social networks per month. The social media advertising spend is projected to cross $276.7 billion in 2025, with 83% of ad spend total generated on mobile by 2030. The video content generally appears to be popular, with 78% of people preferring to learn about new products through short video content, and 93% of marketers reporting will spend more time on social marketing in 2025 as 90% of the consumers rely directly on to social media to keep themselves up with the trends and the cultural moments. No matter if you are a startup or an established enterprise, we offer flexible and scalable social media packages that not just fit the user's needs but also help businesses to shine all the way long. We design a customised social media strategy that is aligned well with the brand voice, goals and the target audience. We professionally write a post and design eye-catching visuals to meet the particular media’s audience’s needs. Our experts conduct daily monitoring, posting and seamless engagement across selected channels. We perform timely responses to comments and messages to develop community and business trust. We allow businesses to access the detailed monthly reports and analytics to measure the growth, engagement and conversions. We run paid ad campaigns that are designed uniquely for audience targeting and to empower lead generation. From looking after startups to enterprises, we have packages for every business type. You can now easily compare the features, social media management pricing, and platforms, and choose what suits your business needs. We offer a scalable and competitive social media management pricing to suit businesses of all sizes. Our social media packages pricing is well-structured and aids in delivering value and measurable results. Package Ideal For Platforms Posts/Week Engagement Reporting Price/Month Starter Small Businesses 1-2 3 Monthly $399 Growth Mid-size Brands 3-4 5 Bi-weekly $699 Pro Large Businesses Up to 5 Daily Weekly $999 Custom Enterprises Any Tailored Full Service Custom On Request We deliver end-to-end social media marketing services packages across all the major platforms to help the brand connect with the right audience, at the right time and in the correct place. Facebook marketing is a powerhouse for B2C and B2B marketing. We create engaging content, run highly targeted ad campaigns, manage community interactions and increase brand visibility, drive traffic and generate leads. Instagram marketing is a perfect match for a visually driven brand. From reels and stories to carousel posts, we aid businesses in showcasing the products, promoting the brand, and engaging the audience with compelling visual content that drives conversion and builds loyalty. LinkedIn is ideal for professional networking and B2B outreach. LinkedIn marketing strategy positions you as an industry leader. Here we curate the thought-based leadership content, manage the company pages, run sponsored ads and generate quality leads. X(formerly Twitter) is where real-time conversation matters. We manage with the tweets, threads, trends and the engagement to ensure the brand stays consistent, timely and connected with followers and the industry influencers. We help users tap into Pinterest’s high-intent audience and TikTok’s viral potential. Whether it is to drive website visits through pins or to create short-form, shareable videos for TikTok, we design content that amplifies reach and engagement. If the video is premier content, then YouTube is the throne. Our team of experts look after channel optimisation, video SEO, content planning, and performance analytics. Our presence is to grow subscribers, boost views and maximise watch time. Are you ready to take your first step towards transforming your online presence? You might need to speak with our experts and goal managers to discover the effective social media marketing packages. We go above and beyond to post the relevant content on our social media handles. We deliver real business growth using powerful, platform-specific social media strategies. This is a tricky question to answer about what social media marketing services packages might be an ideal match for the business. But at Softtrix, our team offers a free consultation to understand the business’s unique goals, audience and the platforms. Based on the analysis, we recommend suitable social media management pricing and packages. Yes! We at Softtrix enable the flexibility to opt for preferred social media packages pricing as per convenience. We can help businesses upgrade and downgrade their packages, enabling customisation of the plans with their evolving needs. The costing of the social media marketing services packages depends on the business, scope, and the features included. There are some basic social media management packages to start at a thousand rupees, while other comprehensive plans could cost up to lakhs per month. The social media management packages allow businesses to access improved brand awareness, improved audience engagement, time savings and data-driven insights for better decision making. It generally takes up to 3-6 months to witness the significant results from social media marketing, and in such cases, it can take up to a year or more, especially in competitive industries. The initial engagement can be seen within a few days, but a substantial following and seeing requires time to turn into conversion results.
