Cyber Monday is over. Great security isn't. Missed out? Our world-class protection is always here. Check back soon for deals! Relentless protection, all year long Security essentials Falcon Go Go 1 / billed annually Protects against all types of threats, from malware and ransomware to sophisticated attacks, and deploys in minutes, immediately protecting your endpoints. Provides the visibility and precise control required to enable safe usage of USB devices across your organization. Safeguards your business from mobile threats with advanced protection that detects malicious activity and prevents unauthorized access on Android and iOS devices. Firewall management Endpoint detection and response Threat intelligence & hunting Available to assist small and medium businesses with installation and operational concerns. Enhanced protection Falcon Pro Pro Protects against all types of threats, from malware and ransomware to sophisticated attacks, and deploys in minutes, immediately protecting your endpoints. Provides the visibility and precise control required to enable safe usage of USB devices across your organization. Safeguards your business from mobile threats with advanced protection that detects malicious activity and prevents unauthorized access on Android and iOS devices. Delivers simple, centralized host firewall management, making it easy to manage and control host firewall policies. Endpoint detection and response Threat intelligence & hunting Available to assist small and medium businesses with installation and operational concerns. Advanced protection Falcon Enterprise Enterprise Protects against all types of threats, from malware and ransomware to sophisticated attacks, and deploys in minutes, immediately protecting your endpoints. Provides the visibility and precise control required to enable safe usage of USB devices across your organization. Safeguards your business from mobile threats with advanced protection that detects malicious activity and prevents unauthorized access on Android and iOS devices. Delivers simple, centralized host firewall management, making it easy to manage and control host firewall policies. Delivers continuous, comprehensive endpoint visibility and automatically detects and intelligently prioritizes malicious activity to ensure nothing is missed and potential breaches are stopped. Partners you with a team of elite cybersecurity experts to hunt continuously within the Falcon platform for faint signs of sophisticated intrusions, leaving attackers nowhere to hide. Available to assist small and medium businesses with installation and operational concerns. Why choose CrowdStrike? Reduce complexity. Install with ease. The CrowdStrike Falcon® platform is 100% cloud based and doesn’t require hardware, additional software, or configurations. Built to secure the AI era AI is transforming business and arming adversaries. The Falcon platform is purpose-built to harness, operationalize, and scale agentic AI for cybersecurity. Customers trust CrowdStrike to protect what matters most Compare Bundles Falcon Go Falcon Pro Falcon Enterprise Annual price $59.99 per device* $99.99 per device* $184.99 per device* FAQ Check back here for the latest deals. CrowdStrike’s 2025 Cyber Monday deal ran from November 24 to December 5 and included a promotion for Falcon Go, Pro, or Enterprise. Falcon Go is a modern, AI-powered cybersecurity offering purpose-built for small businesses. It’s designed to be easy to purchase, install, and operate. Falcon Pro includes everything in Go, plus Firewall Management. Looking for more capability? Falcon Enterprise builds on these bundles with leading endpoint security and threat hunting. Contact us to get a tailored fit for your organization. 1 Purchases of Falcon Go are limited to a maximum of 100 devices.
