Courses Free Courses Unlock the magic of guitar with my free courses and become the guitarist you've always dreamed of! From mastering the pentatonic scale to exploring blues progressions, acoustic tricks and power chords, these lessons are packed iwht everything you need. Whether you're just starting out or leveling up, let's have some fun and start jamming together today! FREE Beginner Acoustic Guitar Let me show you how to play the guitar and have more fun than you ever thought was possible! This 6 hour course which can be streamed and downloaded for life, is designed for the straight beginner that has always wanted to try the guitar! $42.00 USD How To Play Electric Guitar For Beginners In this course, I'm going to teach you everything you need to know to get started playing electric guitar. Also, with the one time purchase you will be able to stream AND download these lessons forever. No memberships, no recurring. $68.00 USD Soloing For Beginners If you're a beginner guitarist eager to dive into the most exhilarating aspect of guitar playing—soloing—this course is perfect for you. Forget about getting bogged down with endless scale shapes, confusing music theory, and advanced techniques. $69.00 USD Intermediate Blues Techniques This course is all about mastering essential blues concepts, exploring creative variations, and learning techniques that bring personality and soul to your playing. $92.00 USD Intermediate Foundation For Electric Guitar From mastering the fretboard to exploring advanced chord shapes, arpeggios, Triads and essential licks, each chapter builds upon the last, paving the way for continuous improvement. $98.00 USD Beginner Blues This course will help you master the 12 bar blues, which is the foundation of blues music, but also integral to understanding rock and even pop music. I'll show you how to play the 12 bar blues including, riffs, rhythms, licks, and various "Turnarounds" which will help you become a better guitar player no matter what style you want to play! $37.00 USD Inspired By B.B. King Inspired by B.B. King teaches you the art of soulful simplicity—30 chapters of classic blues feel, phrasing, and tone that capture the magic of the King of the Blues. $119.00 USD Inspired By Clapton Inspired by Clapton is packed with 40 chapters of soulful licks, phrasing tricks, and expressive bends to help you play with more feel, fire, and flavor—just like the blues legends. $119.00 USD Texas Blues Guitar Inspired By SRV In this course, we’re diving deep into the electrifying style of Stevie Ray Vaughan (SRV), blending the soulful influences of Albert King, the psychedelic blues of Jimi Hendrix, and adding a dash of legendary players like... $119.00 USD Inspired by Hendrix To create this course I deconstructed all the techniques Hendrix used while listening to him over the last 30 years. I have focused on 3 different aspects of the Hendrix style. $119.00 USD Essential Blues and Rock Bundle In this bundle you will receive Over 20 hours of HD video instruction. These Lessons can be downloaded and streamed. Beginner Blues is 4 and a half hours of blues lessons Blues styles is 3 hours and 20 minutes Power Chords is 2 hours and 20 minutes Blues Rock Rhythm Guitar is 5 hours and 20 min Intro to Blues Slide Guitar 5 hours $89.00 USD Intermediate Lead Guitar Bundle "The Tasty Zone" Shot in crystal-clear 4K and includes downloadable PDF tabs! Built for more experienced players, The Tasty Zone bundle features four all-new premium courses: Mixing Major and Minor Pentatonics, BB Box Techniques, Voodoo Blues Scale, and Double Stops You Can Use. Because this is a more intermediate series, I’ve also included... $118.00 USD Acoustic Blues Masterclass with Fingerstyle Course and Caged Method Close to 15 hours of HD content which can be streamed and downloaded for life. This bundled offer contains my "Acoustic Blues Superclass", "Marty's Uncaged", "Beginner Fingerstyle" as well as "Acoustic Tricks and Embellishments" $89.00 USD Blues Rock Rhythm If you're looking to unlock the power of rock and blues, this is the course for you! With over 5 hours of instruction which can be streamed and downloaded for life, I will show you how rock music and the heavier side of blues can be brought together in a powerful one-two punch of rock blues domination! $49.00 USD Beginner Strumming For Beginners Do you find yourself struggling with strumming rhythms and switching chords as you start your journey on the guitar? You're not alone. This course is designed specifically with the new guitarist in mind. $20.00 USD Beginner Fingerstyle Picking I really enjoyed putting this course together on beginner finger style acoustic playing. This was a style I was always intimidated by and I kind of avoided it until I unlocked a few easy "Travis Picking" patterns mixed with the basic open chords. Travis picking is a style where your thumb plays a constant bass note pattern usually on two alternating strings. Spending a little time getting a few of these patterns down to where you don't have to think about them, helps unlock that very cool sound where it sounds like two guitars are playing at once. I always found finger style acoustic courses much too advanced to follow along, that's why I made this course, to demystify this really fun style of playing guitar! $30.00 USD Lead Guitar Phase 1 Starting point for playing guitar solos with 3 hours of instruction guiding you through the concepts step by step! $20.00 USD Lead Guitar Phase 2 Three and a half hours of lead guitar instruction picking up where phase 1 left off and taking your soloing into deeper musical territory! $20.00 USD Lead Guitar Phase 3 Two hours of lead guitar instruction including new scale shapes, licks, string-bending, and other ferocious techniques ready to be unlocked! $20.00 USD Modes Master Class If you’ve ever heard the word “modes” and thought, Whoa, that sounds complicated!—don’t worry, I’ve got you covered. This Modes Master Class is one of the biggest, most comprehensive courses on MartyMusic.com—over 15 hours of video lessons and a 74-page downloadable guide packed with tabs, diagrams, and step-by-step instruction. Modes might sound fancy, but at their core, they’re just different flavors of the major scale. They’re the secret sauce behind some of your favorite songs and legendary guitar solos. $108.00 USD Lead Guitar Face Melter Bundle Welcome to the Lead Guitar Face Melter Bundle where you will get freshly made lessons focusing on all things lead guitar, with 20 hours of step by step instruction. This will give you a well rounded understanding of improvising guitar solos for rock, blues and everything in between (including Scales, Slide Guitar, Lick Building, Southern Rock, and other essential fundamentals)! Lead Guitar Phases 1, 2, and 3 is the ultimate guide for developing a vocabulary to get you playing guitar solos immediately. Even if you've been working on your lead chops a bit, these Lead Guitar Courses will show you the fastest ways to start "Face Melting"! We'll focus a lot on the Pentatonic scale and I'll also show you $84.00 USD Acoustic Blues Masterclass What's up you guys! Marty here, stoked to share with you this Acoustic Blues Masterclass. We'll go over different playing techniques and concepts such as Blues Chord Voicings, Rhythms, Fingerpicking, and Triads. I also introduce a variety of new blues licks and learning exercises to help quickly improve your soloing and scale-working abilities. Over 5 hours of teaching. This course is digital and can be streamed and downloaded for life! $45.00 USD The CAGED System My "Marty's Uncaged" course is basically a theory study of the guitar fretboard which will help give you a better understanding of what's going on with those pesky chord shapes and give you new found freedom up and down the guitar neck! This course can be streamed and downloaded for life! $47.00 USD Major Pentatonic Course and Licks Close to 4 hours of Instruction which can be streamed and downloaded for life. This course teaches the Major Pentatonic scale and also comes with a set of Major pentatonic licks to learn as well. This offer includes 2 courses. Major Pentatonic Course + Major Pentatonic Licks $40.00 USD Blues Slide Guitar Learning some basic slide guitar skills can really add dimension to your guitar playing and overall musicianship. In this introductory course, I show you exactly what I have learned in the 2 years that I have been studying how to play slide guitar. The biggest breakthrough I had is when I figured out "Open E Tuning" as the gateway to all those fabulous sounds I was searching for. I will show you the tuning and a great way to start your slide journey. I'll show you the proper left hand slide techniques and what'll you need to get rocking and having fun right away. I will also focus heavily on the right hand and the proper string muting you will need to work on. I have had so much fun adding this new set of skills to my bag of tricks and I'm super excited to teach you what I have learned so far. $40.00 USD Jerry Garcia Solo Style This course teaches a nice long funky solo in the style of Jerry Garcia with a dash of John Mayer. Step by step instruction as well as the theory behind this funky bluesy solo. 2 Hours of instruction Can be streamed and downloaded for life PDF Tablature Included Intermediate level $42.00 USD Can't decide? Get them all for a small monthly fee or start for free!" A New Way to Learn Guitar With Marty — Real Lessons, Real Access, Real Progress Join the Marty Music Membership and get weekly livestreams, exclusive lessons, and full course access. Inspirado Media Marcus King Master Course - Produced By Marty Music The Marcus King Master Course is a deep dive into the art of playing, phrasing, and creating music with true soul. This course offers a hands-on journey through my influences, from the soulful licks of Otis Redding and Sam Cooke to the gritty tones of Hendrix and Stevie Ray Vaughan. $94 USD Jared James Nichols Master Course - Produced By Marty Music This course is all about connecting you to the heart of your instrument—unleashing your voice, your style, and your blues power. I’m taking you inside my world, breaking down my techniques, songs, and philosophy, rooted in passion and years of grinding it out on stages around the globe. $94 USD Phil X Master Course - Produced By Marty Music This ain't your average guitar course. This is ME— Phil X —plugged in, cranked up, and ready to unleash a full-on masterclass for every player who's sick of boring licks, stale tone, and lifeless solos. From soldering pickups with shaky hands to bending strings like I'm trying to exorcise a demon , I'm bringing you deep into MY world—where the tone is dangerous, the feel is reckless, and your guitar becomes a weapon of JOY and CHAOS. $94 USD Music Theory 101 with Chris Sherland - Produced By Marty Music Music Theory 101 for guitarists features guitar educator Chris Sherland who was Marty's primary guitar teacher through college. Now he teaches the music theory you need as a guitarist to better understand how music works! Topics are covered as if you are enrolling in your first music theory class and from the perspective of a guitarist! Learn about intervals, scales, chord construction, how and why chords sound beautiful together, and so much more! $85 USD Quinn Sullivan Master Course - Produced By Marty Music his is more than just a guitar course—it's an invitation into the creative mind, musical soul, and personal story of Quinn Sullivan. From his earliest days sharing stages with legends like Buddy Guy and Carlos Santana to his evolution as a solo artist and songwriter, this course captures the techniques, philosophies, and raw feel that define his unique voice on the guitar. $94 USD
