I’ve been doing Yoga With Adriene’s January programmes for 10 years—here’s why I think the just-announced 2026 series is great for beginners With just four practices, it’s a more realistic way to start the new year off right I was first introduced to Adriene Mishler—better known as Yoga With Adriene—more than 10 years ago when I discovered her 30 days of yoga challenge in January 2014. However, as I’ve gotten older and busier, committing to practising yoga every day for 30 days is no longer practical. Thankfully, Mishler’s January 2026 challenge is far more realistic, while still providing the opportunity for a new year reset we all crave. The series is called Return and it involves four videos that Mishler will post each weekend. On the final weekend in January, Mishler will do a live class, with the intention of bringing her community together. What does Yoga With Adriene’s Return series involve? In the video announcing the series, Mishler says the series is an opportunity to “return to the thing that matters most”, explaining that it’s all about self-reflection and grounding. The yoga instructor is encouraging her worldwide community to get involved with the series, which she says will provide “friendship and accountability partners across the globe”. A video will go live every weekend in January and Mishler encourages people to follow the practice that week on any day that suits. Each yoga practice has a different focus and Mishler has shared the following titles: Start your week with achievable workout ideas, health tips and wellbeing advice in your inbox. Week 1: Sense Week 2: Ground Week 3: Listen Week 4: Center Is Yoga With Adriene still doing a 30-day challenge in January? Although Mishler won’t be sharing a new yoga video every day in January as she has in previous years, she will be putting together a digital calendar for the month. The digital calendar will suggest one of Mishler’s YouTube videos for each day of the month, which will include the new practices. How can I get involved with Yoga With Adriene's January series? Mishler will be posting the yoga videos to her YouTube channel each weekend. Check back each week to find them, or subscribe to her channel to see them. Mishler also has a newsletter, which you can subscribe to to receive the links to the practices once they are live. Alice Porter is a freelance journalist covering lifestyle topics including health, fitness and wellness. She is particularly interested in women's health, strength training and fitness trends and writes for publications including Stylist Magazine, Refinery29, The Independent and Glamour Magazine. Like many other people, Alice's personal interest in combining HIIT training with strength work quickly turned into a CrossFit obsession and she trains at a box in south London. When she's not throwing weights around or attempting handstand push-ups, you can probably find her on long walks in nature, buried in a book or hopping on a flight to just about anywhere it will take her. You must confirm your public display name before commenting Please logout and then login again, you will then be prompted to enter your display name.
