Contact us Gaming Agency to Help You Level Up The modern-day gaming industry is a battlefield. With players spoilt for choices, they demand rich and immersive experiences to satisfy their passions. For this reason, the Gameverse is constantly on the cusp of innovation. Here’s where M+C Saatchi Performance is your power-up. As a game marketing agency, we understand players’ psychology and scatter Easter eggs across the lifecycle to keep them hooked. Whether you’re targeting casual gamers, RPG enthusiasts, real-money gamers, or competitive gamers, we help businesses create a sense of intrigue that captivates their attention from the early marketing stages to post-launch content. The result? Long-term engagement translates into increased downloads, word-of-mouth recommendations, and games that dominate the charts. Our clients WE’RE EXPERTS IN App Marketing Our team has a wealth of experience in developing powerful app marketing strategies for brands. We run targeted campaigns to promote your gaming app across various channels, such as social media, video game streaming platforms, search engines, etc., to maximize downloads and user acquisition. App Store Optimisation We optimize your game listing across various app stores to enhance visibility and discoverability to increase organic downloads. From writing a perfect keyword-rich app copy to A/B testing, we do it all. Brand Strategy & Development Establish your game’s unique identity through compelling storytelling, strategic marketing, and continuous engagement to attract target players. Content Marketing Leverage content in various formats to charm, empower, and educate gamers to stay on top of their minds. From blog posts on in-game strategies to video trailers, we know what it takes to create hype around your game. Data Analytics & Reporting Take a sneak peek into player data and campaign performance to adjust your strategies in real time. Such proactive campaign management allows you to connect with the audiences in the best way possible. Influencer Marketing As a gaming influencer marketing agency, we know the right influencers to create noise about your game. Our hand-picked list of influencers aligns with your target demographics to enhance exposure to a wider audience. Market Research & Insights We translate market trends and player preferences into actionable insights that help game developers keep up with the changes. Whether it is improving the product, gameplay or pivoting marketing strategies, we keep you up-to-date. Media Buying In the competitive media buying landscape, we offer strong platform relationships and expertise. We strategically position your ads for optimal engagement, conversions, and brand awareness. Partner with us for an effective omnichannel media buying strategy that amplifies your brand. Paid Social Advertising We help you stay on top of high-traffic gaming websites and social media platforms like Twitch and Discord through media buying, search engine marketing, and paid social advertising. Programmatic Ads Our Programmatic advertising services get you noticed among the target audiences. We help you deliver targeted ads within other games, gaming websites, and online gaming forums to connect with active gamers. What Can We Do As a Gaming Marketing Agency? Target High-Value Gamers Our in-depth understanding of gamer demographics, gaming genres, and user behavior allows us to craft laser-focused campaigns. We know how to strike a chord with the right players to drive downloads, engagement, and in-app purchases! Data-Led Insights From creating pre-launch buzz to sustaining post-release engagement, we work with a wealth of data-driven insights to develop winning strategies. Depending on your campaign objectives, we generate high-quality creatives, partner with influencers, or land plump digital real estate to drive results. Build a Community Gaming is much more than entertainment. We get it, so we cultivate meaningful connections between the game and the players to build thriving gaming communities. Our targeted community engagement campaigns kindle loyalty and transform casual gamers into passionate advocates. Related Reading: WE DID IT FOR THEM WE WILL DO IT FOR YOU Let's Have a Chat We would love to hear from you to chat about your performance marketing goals in the gaming industry. Drop us a message, and we’ll get back to you as soon as possible.
