We get it: no matter how committed you are to reaching your fitness goals, it can be intimidating to walk into a gym for the first time. Venturing into the weight machine area can feel even more like venturing into a country where you don't speak the language. Here, we'll dig into everything you need to know about using machines in the gym. How a trainer can help you use gym equipment Working with a personal trainer can help you learn the basics of how to use gym equipment. Personal trainers understand how to work with people at every fitness level, and can help you make the most of your time in the gym, whether it's your first time working out or you've been pumping iron for years. Working with a personal trainer long-term can be a valuable investment. If working with a personal trainer regularly doesn't make sense for your budget, you may want to consider one or two sessions to get the hang of using new-to-you machines in the gym. Strength training machines and how to use them Weight stacks and cable machines Weight stack machines—including chest press machines, chest fly machines, arm extension machines, triceps press machines, rotary torso machines, and leg curl machines—use a combination of stacks of rectangular, weighted plates and cable systems to create resistance against the desired muscle group. To select the weight you're going to use for a weight stack/cable machine, you'll place the pin—a metal cylinder—into the hole of the desired weight you'd like to use for the machine. Be sure you push the pin all the way into the weight stack to ensure that the plates are stable and don't slip. As you move through your reps, be sure to use controlled movements so that the weight plates don't slam. Plate-loaded machines With some weight training machines, the weights aren't connected to the machine with a cable—you'll have to place the weights on the machine yourself. Bench press machines, leg press machines, and Smith machines all require you to load your own weights before you get started. When you're stacking weights onto a machine, be sure to start with the largest weight first. Push it back as far as it will go onto the bar, then repeat the sequence on the other side. Be sure to switch back and forth between sides as you're loading to keep the machine balanced. After you finish fully loading the weights, you'll need to secure the weights with a pin—a small piece of metal used to hold the weights in place while you're lifting. After you're finished lifting, be sure to remove the weights from the machine and return them to where you found them. Hydraulic resistance machines Hydraulic machines function similarly to weight stack and cable machines. Instead of a stack of weights, however, these machines are fitted with hydraulic pistons that work to create resistance as oil flows through the cylinders of the machine. To change the resistance on a hydraulic machine, you'll usually need to change the settings on a dial or on a similar mechanism. These machines aren’t as common as plate-loaded machines, cable machines, and weight stack machines in most gyms. If you're unsure of how to use a hydraulic machine, be sure to ask gym staff for help so you're able to safely get a great workout. Cardio machines and how to use them Ready to ramp up your heart rate by hopping on a cardio machine? Pop your earbuds in, get your favorite playlist going, and enjoy some time on one of these tried-and-true cardio favorites. Treadmills Most treadmills are super-simple to use. When you first get on the treadmill, stand with one foot on either side of the belt (the part that you'll walk or run on once you turn the treadmill on) while you get the machine started. You'll likely see a few different options, including quick start, intervals, and hills. It's a good idea to start with the quick start option while you learn how the treadmill works. After you press the quick start button, the belt will likely start to move slowly. Step onto the belt and begin walking, adjusting your speed and/or the incline of the treadmill to meet your needs. Elliptical machines Elliptical machines—named for the oblong shape that your foot follows on the pedals— are a joint-friendly way to boost your heart rate. It can take a few minutes to get the hang of an elliptical machine, so don't worry if it feels awkward when you first place your feet on the pedals. On most elliptical machines, simply stepping onto the pedals and moving your feet will turn the machine on. From there, you can choose to adjust resistance levels, choose specific programs, or set a countdown timer for how long you'd like to work out. Stair climbers The never-ending stacks of stairs can look intimidating, but once you climb up and check out the control panel, you'll see that it's fairly easy to operate. Like elliptical machines, most stair climbers will turn on as soon as you step onto the machine. You'll be able to choose from quick start or programmed options. When you're ready to get off, turn the machine off and wait for the stairs to stop moving, then use the handrails to guide yourself back to the floor (the stairs may shift slightly as you lower back to the ground, so be sure to move slowly). Stationary bikes Whether you want to sit back and read, watch TV, or get some sweaty intervals in, stationary bikes can be a great way to get a cardio workout that's just as easy on the joints as the elliptical. To get started, sit down on the seat, and use the handle to adjust the seat to your preferred position. Place your feet on the pedals, begin pedaling, and use the control panel to adjust the resistance as necessary. Other equipment Medicine balls Medicine balls can offer a full-body workout when used correctly. If you're in the gym with a friend, consider standing back-to-back and passing the medicine ball to one another to work your cores (be sure to switch direction after a set number of passes). If you're in the gym on your own, medicine ball slams can also provide a great cardio and strength session (click here to check out a quick how-to). Ropes Battle ropes are heavy, braided ropes that are typically wrapped in tape or other smooth material at the end. The ends of the rope are anchored in the ground. To use battle ropes, make waves (either with both arms at the same time or with alternating arms). Ropes workouts can be seriously challenging. It's a good idea to use these for high intensity interval (HIIT) training. Try making waves for 20 seconds followed by a 40-second break, and repeat 10–15 times. Stability balls Stability balls can be a great way to work your abs. Try doing a plank with your feet on the stability ball for a balance challenge. Ready to take it to the next level? Try a jackknife. Start by holding the plank position with your hands, then pulling your knees into your chest while your feet remain on the stability ball. Basic gym etiquette First time at the gym? While it's normal to feel a little nervous, remember, every single person in the gym had to, at some point, walk through the doors for the first time. You're doing something positive for your health, and no one is there to judge you. Understanding gym etiquette tips can help your workout flow smoothly, and can help you feel more comfortable as you move from one machine to the next. Keep these gym etiquette tips in mind: Wipe down cardio machines after you're done using them . Usually, there are spray bottles and paper towels for this purpose. Ask for help when you need it. Gym staff members are there for a reason, and they'll be happy to show you how to safely use equipment. Share equipment with others . If you're doing several sets on a machine and others are waiting, ask them if they'd like to "work in," i.e., get their reps in while you're resting between sets. Ready to get fit? We've got your back At Evidation, we're here to support you as you work to become your healthiest self. If that means hitting the gym, we're here to provide you with the encouragement you need (we've also got you covered if you prefer to work out at home). Here's how the Evidation app works: after you download the app and create an account, you'll be prompted to share health data that you're already tracking, such as information from fitness tracking apps (like Apple Health, Fitbit, Garmin, etc.), nutrition apps, etc. We'll use this information to find patterns and connections, then provide you with actionable, personalized, content-based insights that will help you drive your health journey forward. No matter where you're at in your health journey, our team is here to support you. Click here to download Evidation today and get started.
