What’s happening in the market New research highlights how brands can deliver greater value by shaping experiences that consumer find relevant. As competition for both share of wallet and heart increases organisations that embrace personalization and new technology are best set-up for success. Investment in personalization continues to pay off and be a strategic asset for companies to drive enterprise growth The business value of personalization is growing clearer every year as customers gravitate toward brands that make them feel understood as individuals. Brands that excel in personalization are soaring past their revenue goals because their customers buy more, more often, and remain loyal over time. Emerging technology, specifically Generative AI will be a competitive advantage for those who can leverage early From buzz word to business asset Generative AI (Gen AI) will become an essential component of nearly all enterprise software offerings by the end of 2024. This integration could significantly boost revenues, with an expected uplift of around $10 billion for enterprise software companies. Of consumers are more likely to purchase from brands that deliver personalized content Of personalization leaders are more likely to exceed revenue goals of marketing leaders are setting aside budget, 56% are actively investing Of brands anticipate using GenAI tools in their business From economic uncertainty and geopolitical conflicts to the ongoing challenges of climate change, CMOs today face no shortage of obstacles. Marketing and retail leaders who can harness these trends are best positioned for growth. For a full deepdive, download the Marketing Trends via the button below. Create a unified experience and one-to-one relationship with customers stitching together journeys across channels between digital and physical interactions. Use AI-driven automation to bring efficiency, creativity, and precision to personalized content, service, and localization at scale, elevating customer engagement effortlessly. Embrace privacy-friendly data strategies to cultivate trust and customer loyalty, gathering data and turning direct customer insights into your valuable asset. Make every interaction meaningful by using data to segment priority customers and tech to tailor customer journeys from initial engagement through to loyalty, driving deeper connections. Streamline media and agency management to amplify reach, maximize ROI, and ensure consistent, compelling brand narratives across all channels. Key trends for marketing leaders and CMOs Download the marketing trends for 2025 Nicholas is a Digital Strategy Consultant within the Customer practice in The Netherlands. He is an experienced consultant and has a deep understanding of omnichannel, loyalty and marketing. Nicholas has extensive experience within the retail and consumer products industry, helping clients on a range of topics such as channel strategy, market roll-out, customer experience and operating model. Nicholas is passionate about supporting clients such as Nike on customer-driven transformation initiatives specifically focused on driving growth from within the organisation. Nicholas has a passion for sport, innovation, and all things digital. Originally from New Zealand, Nicholas now lives in Amsterdam. Kasia is a partner in Advertising, Marketing and Commerce practice with focus on Consumer and Retail. She has 20 years experience in digital, data and marketing. She has worked with some of the leading FMCGs around embedding tech, making sense of data, instilling digital first culture and helping to create robust marketing organizations. Her passion is helping to translate and elevate human experiences into daily work of organizations. Her leading role in AM&C is helping clients to elevate their customer experiences through defining and building digital capabilities and way of working to execute on this. Typically this involves new digital and marketing strategies, technology (customer data, marketing automation, ecommerce tooling), content (brand strategy, UX/UI design, campaign content) and operating model components (governance set-up, make/buy/partner decisions, skill building and organization restructuring).
