Digital Marketing PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATE - Demand for Digital marketing skills is skyrocketing! Gain hands-on experience and a holistic understanding of most current marketing strategies the world's most successful brands are using to connect with modern consumers. This Program is Perfect For... ...those seeking a dynamic career in marketing, communications, digital media, branding, advertising, and public relations among others. This program will train entrepreneurs, business owners and marketing managers to develop strategies to boost their exposure and engage with modern consumers. What you'll learn... How to select an optimal channel and budget mix supported by a paid media plan and campaign action plan to execute a digital marketing strategy, applicable for any business, product or service Best practices in online marketing analytics and measurement, website optimization, and content strategy How to leverage mobile marketing for its micro-targeting advantages How to set business, SEO, and website objectives to drive qualified website traffic, build awareness, and generate leads Hands on practice with Google Analytics' custom reporting features to track live data, assess digital campaign performance and monitor the customer conversion journey Techniques to increase your website's visibility through search engine optimization and drive additional traffic with pay-per-click advertising Recognize the key components of effective web design and the importance of website optimization for a digital marketing strategy Create and curate compelling content using tools and techniques including content personalization and brand storytelling Identify the benefits of social media marketing and differentiate between the most influential social media platforms and their advantages for a digital marketer Courses Required 3 Courses (12 units) Units Fall Winter Spring Summer BUSAD X409.65 - Marketing Principles and Practices 4 MGMNT X477 - Developing a Digital Marketing Strategy 4 / / / / MGMNT X477.1 - Web Analytics for Marketing 4 / / / / Elective Courses: At least 1 course (4 units) Units Fall Winter Spring Summer BUSAD X409.11 - International Marketing 4 MGMNT X482 - Public Relations 4 BUSAD X409.66 - Marketing Internship 4 MGMNT X479 - Business and Personal Branding 4 / MGMNT X410 - Business Development and Sales 4 Important Course Information Transfer credit available! Have you previously earned academic or professional units at another institution? You can apply for transfer credit towards this certificate! Apply now or contact us for more information. Pricing Public UCSB Students International Individual Courses $685 $514 -- Estimated Certificate Cost $2835 $2,151 $5,390 *25% Discount Available for Current UCSB Students! Info Student Information Center Links Offering Digital Credentials. Learn More. Marketing & Branding To earn this Digital Credential, the student has learned to analyze brands and define branding; create functional and strategic marketing plans; identify the impact of consumer demographics and behavior; and recognize the factors that impact brand strategy. Successful completion of 2 UC Santa Barbara PaCE Professional Courses: 2 Professional Courses BUSAD X409.65 Marketing Principles & Practices MGMNT X479 Business and Personal Branding 72 Contact hours 8 Professional units
