Learn to use key digital marketing tools and insights to better inform strategic business decisions and maximize value. This online learning experience was amazing. Every topic was thoroughly explained and illustrated in the videos and additional notes. My understanding of digital marketing, the customer journey, and how to provide value as a business has evolved completely. About the Program What to Expect Use analytics, data, and experimentation to identify opportunities for digital marketing innovation Explore the potential to create and capture value in the customer journey, and how to best guide consumers with content marketing Capitalize on value from owned media via search engine optimization (SEO), paid media strategies, dashboard analytics, and social media marketing Identify effective paid media strategies for specific customer journey points Learn to prepare your organization for digital transformation Who Should Attend Both junior and mid-career marketers who wish to improve their digital marketing skills for better business performance Non-marketing professionals who are interested in exploring different functions within a business and how digital marketing can inform their strategic business decisions Business leaders and entrepreneurs who aim to gain a better customer understanding and who hope to harness digital marketing channels to create value in the consumer journey Professionals wanting to formalize their experience and knowledge with a certificate of participation from one of the world’s leading business schools Agenda Modules are released on a weekly basis and can be completed in your own time and at your own pace. Orientation Module Module 1: Frameworks for generating customer value Module 2: Paid Media: Advertising that reaches customers Module 3: Owned Media: Impactful content marketing Module 4: Social media: Listening, promotion, and engagement Module 5: Expanding value using mobile and emerging technologies Module 6: Using analytics to innovate Module 7: Organizational considerations for digital transformation Module 8: Digital marketing, regulation, and the future This course is what you need if you are looking to have a critical opinion when interacting with a digital marketing team. I believe I can now work side-by-side with them and give them the right feedback. Faculty Program Co-conveners Jiwoong Shin Professor of Marketing Areas of Expertise: Analytics, Brand Management, Digital Marketing, Game Theory, Marketing Strategy, Social Media, Word-of-Mouth Read the full bio Professor Shin’s research focuses on quantitative marketing, marketing strategy, and applied economic theory. His several award-winning pieces of research advance our understanding of firms’ strategic actions in the context of social interactions and digital marketing; in particular, consumer journey in the digital sphere, word of mouth, advertising, pricing strategies, and CRM. Also, Professor Shin’s research is published in all of the premier academic marketing and economics journals: Journal of Marketing Research , Management Science , Marketing Science , RAND Journal of Economics , and Quantitative Marketing and Economics . For two years in a row (2010, 2011), Shin has been the recipient of the John D. C. Little Best Paper Award, awarded for the best marketing paper published in Marketing Science and Management Science . In 2011, he was also named a Marketing Science Institute Young Scholar, a title awarded to “potential leaders of the next generation of marketing academics.” In 2018, he was once again recognized for his influence in the field by being nominated as a Marketing Science Institute inaugural MIS Scholar, a title awarded to “top scholars recognizing individuals’ excellence in scholarship who have already helped to set the research agenda for the field.” Professor Shin was appointed Vice President of the INFORMS Marketing Science Society in 2021. K. Sudhir James L. Frank ’32 Professor of Private Enterprise and Management, Professor of Marketing & Director of the China India Insights Program Areas of Expertise: Big Data, Brand Management, Economics, Emerging Markets, Globalization, Health Care, Marketing, Social Enterprise, Social Media Read the full bio K. Sudhir is James L. Frank ’32 Professor of Marketing, Private Enterprise and Management and Founder-Director of the Yale China India Insights Program at the Yale School of Management, where he has been a faculty member since 2001. He is Professor of Economics (by courtesy) at the Yale Economics Department. He leads the academic-industry interface for quantitative marketing at the Yale Center for Customer Insights (YCCI). He has been a Visiting Fellow at various universities around the world including MIT, Toronto, HKUST, INSEAD. He also collaborates with industry research institutions like Microsoft Research and Adobe Research. Professor Sudhir is the current Editor-in-Chief of Marketing Science , the premier journal in the field of quantitative marketing. Sudhir is a pioneer in the use of structural empirical methods in marketing to address various substantive problems in the areas of customer management, salesforce management, organizational buying, and marketing channels. His current research centers around artificial intelligence, big data, and machine learning. Sudhir’s research has been honored with multiple best paper awards from all of the field’s leading quantitative marketing journals. Registration Information Program Details Registration closes: February 03, 2026 Program starts with orientation: February 11, 2026 There are no prerequisites for this program. Register to get started. Our online program collaborator, GetSmarter, will welcome you and guide you through the steps to secure your place in the program. Program Fee Assistance A program fee reduction of 15% is available for those working in the nonprofit or government sectors; Yale University alumni; small groups of 3-6; and those who have ﻿previously participated in a Yale Executive Education program with Yale SOM or 2U/GetSmarter.* *Discounts cannot be combined. ﻿This program does not qualify for veteran financial aid or veterans benefits at this time. Program Collaborator This course is presented entirely online in collaboration with leaders in digital education, GetSmarter, a brand of 2U, Inc. Technology meets academic rigor in GetSmarter’s people-mediated model which enables lifelong learners across the globe to obtain industry-relevant skills that are certified by the world’s most reputable academic institutions. This interactive, supportive teaching model is designed for busy professionals and results in unprecedented certification rates for online courses. View the Digital Marketing: A Strategic Perspective online program on the GetSmarter website. Modules are released on a weekly basis, and can be completed in your own time and at your own pace.
