top of page Online Music Lessons Tailored to You One of my daughters works with Daria for weekly clarinet lessons. Another of my daughters works with Elham for weekly piano lessons and Sarah for weekly violin lessons. (We have our own instruments). ​ --Classes via zoom. So, we can technically log in from anywhere. --Classes can be recorded for replay and/or safety monitoring. --Easy pay using Paypal. --LOVE the google calendar reminder with the zoom ID, teacher's email and phone #s, etc. --My daughters and I are happy with the classes. --As good as (if not better than) in-person classes, in my opinion. --Fits our schedule, which was often difficult for us with in-person classes. We do evening classes. --The teachers provide a weekly class recap and assignment/plan for next class. --Easy access to recap and assignments (Google Drive). --I can easily reach the teachers by text/call and email. --Chris, who runs the program, is also very responsive. I initially contacted him at different times of the day with questions (even late night/overnight/early morning) and he responded very quickly. --There have been a few small issues causing delay to class start times (one need for class reschedule) but we have no problems with the classes and teachers themselves. --We do not plan on returning to in-person classes. Clarinet, Piano, and Violin Lessons Alie D. Schenectady, New York All Around Music has surpassed my expectations so far. I'm very pleased with the entire process, especially my lessons. I would give my highest recommendation to anyone desiring music lessons online. Piano Lessons Oni C. Mount Holly, New Jersey Christopher and Daria have been wonderful. They are willing to work around life's emergencies, and Christopher has been very generous with his time. Daria's attitude about the lessons has been great! She hasn't passed any judgments about my juvenile taste in music. Flute Lessons Andrea M. Monmouth, Oregon The experience has been wonderful so far. My daughter is receiving virtual clarinet lessons, and the first lesson went well. I am hopeful everything will continue moving in a positive manner. The turnaround time from my initial request to the response from this organization was very prompt. Scheduling or booking classes for my daughter was very easy. The prices are both competitive and affordable. The staffers were very receptive and friendly. Overall, this has been a pleasant experience. I will provide updates as we continue. Clarinet Lessons Chassity S. Semmes, Alabama This place is amazing! My 7-year old has been taking singing lessons online for half a year now and we are very satisfied with the quality of instruction. My son’s technique has improved tremendously and he is able to master challenging songs that he couldn’t before. His teacher, Morgan is absolutely wonderful. She is extremely professional, knowledgeable, and patient with my son. She is also able to keep him on track and his mind stimulated. We are very happy with our experience and highly recommend this place. Vocal Lessons Julia E. Temecula, CA I have been taking voice lessons with Morgan Paige (who has the voice of a beautiful Disney Princess!!). Wow my voice doesn’t sound like her, she found the strength in my voice and really helped me exercise it. Her vocal exercises were wonderful at relaxing the vocal cords So the sound came out much fuller. She is also a very positive, encouraging teacher and really build your confidence. I was credulous at first about online lessons, but the process was a smooth as silk! Vocal Lessons Kristan C. Madison, Wisconsin All Around Music is a great company to work with. They are very affordable, offer a broad range of services and are very responsive. I hired James for guitar lessons for my 10yo daughter and he is an excellent teacher. He’s very patient, kind and is knowledgeable about the instrument. I love how at the end of each session he consults with me on her progress. We are overly satisfied with our Choice of service with All Around Music. Guitar Lessons Tamika P. Charlotte, North Carolina They literally proved what their business and teachers are about and I love it. Audio Production Lessons Janet B. Staten Island, New York I have no complaints, and all good things to say about All Around Music & the voice coach, Morgan. Thanks for a great experience; we will be continuing lessons. Vocal Lessons Stephanie O. Appleton, Wisconsin I have been having piano classes with All Around Music for half a year now. My piano teacher, Elham, is very patient, knowledgeable and encouraging. All Around Music also provides customer support as well, very responsive. I highly recommend it Piano Lessons Wei W. Westford, Massachusettes While I do have a musical background, I’m. Ew to string instruments. As a beginner Abigail and Chris have been so helpful and patient with teaching me how to play the violin. Learning remotely offers a unique form of flexibility, while still being able to get the full scope of in person teaching. I look forward to class each time ! 😄 Violin Lessons Ashley O. West Hartford, Connecticut Excellent and responsive. Experienced teachers! Guitar Lessons Gail A Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania Instructor Jasme is awesome and care about your progress. She aims to provide value each and every lesson. Chris is very supportive of us students and the instructors insuring everyone is on the same page all the time. Thank you I AM loving the virtual experience. Guitar Lessons T.G Tucson, Arizona So far, so good. Guitar Lessons David C. Seattle, Washington I love my piano teacher James !! Chris knows his teachers and recommended the best option for me based on my interests and goals. I also love how attentive and helpful they are if I need any help. Piano Lessons Jerica B. Dallas, TX We have had a fantastic experience here! They have been extremely accommodating with scheduling, and my daughter is making great progress on the guitar with James. Everyone has been helpful, and James has established a great relationship with my daughter. I can’t say enough good things about All Around Music! Highly recommend James! Guitar Lessons Rachel W. Beaverton, Oregon Great service, very customer prurient es an friendly. Violin Lessons Javier S. Sweden Great voice lessons, Morgan is patient and has a great demeanor with children. She is extremely talented and her teaching style is wonderful. Could not have been paired with a better voice coach. Vocal Lessons Patricia G. Santa Ana, California James Cain is a great teacher he's patient, flexible, and organized. I'm looking forward to future lessons with him! Piano Lessons Samuel D. Hagerstown, Maryland bottom of page
