You don’t need to take our word. Below are all of our reviews from 3rd party websites like Google Reviews , Yelp , Facebook , Thumbtack, and more. We print all of our reviews here, including negative reviews. We do not include any reviews by non-students. We think you’ll agree this is a pretty excellent track record. Our reviews are usually very detailed. And we hope they give you a better idea of how our students experience our service. 5 star reviews 4 star reviews 3 star reviews 2 star reviews 1 star reviews Sept. 20, 2027 5 out of 5 stars A wonderful school Sage was the perfect place to act as a hub for Collaborative Composition Initiative 2025 with Unheard-of and Ensemble PART. They hosted 13 composers, two quartets, and two dancers - all while running a music school. Sage himself is a great guy - super helpful, easy going, and runs a wonderful school. Highly recommend. — Google Reviews Nov. 11, 2025 5 out of 5 stars You're going to enjoy it. If you ever get a lesson here you’re going to enjoy it — Google Reviews Nov. 4, 2025 5 out of 5 stars An excellent teacher, helps our child to develop good practices Our daughter takes piano lessons here. Michael is an excellent teacher! He helps our child to develop good practices while learning to play the piano. This school is organized and has flexibility with scheduling . I also like that there’s both private and group lessons included. — Google Reviews Sept. 30, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Excellent music program, my daughter loved it Excellent music program with individualized and personalized attention . My daughter loved it and took lessons for almost five years. — Google Reviews Sept. 29, 2025 5 out of 5 stars My child absolutely loves it! My child has been attending piano lessons here weekly for few months now and he absolutely loves it ! Michael his instructor is top notch. Makes my son feels comfortable and helps him learn at his own pace . He encourages my child to bring his talents to then add on and solidify what he is developing. Truly amazing to see my child grow . — Google Reviews Sept. 12, 2025 3 out of 5 stars This place is like no other The mission of this place is like no other. Sage, the owner, had a traumatic brain injury during his time in the military. He had to learn all over how to play music. He is well steeped in the science on how to help students learn efficiently and effectively . It is a gorgeous space and woven into the community. Any chance you can - find a reason to be part of the Sage Music community . It is well worth it. — Google Reviews Sept. 8, 2025 5 out of 5 stars A great intimate venue A great intimate venue run by very nice folks . I can't wait to see shows out back when the weather cools down. — Google Reviews Sept. 8, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Extremely helpful Never have heard of Sage Music. But my daughter wanted private lessons so I did some research and landed on this place. The person that answered the phone was extremely helpful and they offer plans that accommodate your financial needs. Definitely excited for my daughter ☺️ 💕 — Google Reviews Sept. 2, 2025 4 out of 5 stars 4 Stars - — Google Reviews Sept. 2, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Great community! Sage music is a truly unique music space/school in San Antonio. Great faculty and staff, great community! — Google Reviews Aug. 30, 2025 4 out of 5 stars Wonderful space for music making and community! Wonderful space for music making and community! — Google Reviews Aug. 29, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Beautiful, new, and exciting music! A wonderfully resonant and warm room with a staff committed to programming beautiful, new, and exciting music! — Google Reviews Aug. 19, 2025 5 out of 5 stars 5 Stars - — Google Reviews Aug. 12, 2025 1 out of 5 stars Review from someone who is not a student Too expensive for only one lesson per week for 30 minutes SMH salesmen is what this place is imo — Google Reviews Aug. 5, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Beautiful space, wonderful people. Beautiful space, wonderful people. Im a professional pianist from Chicago and was attending a conference in town and they very graciously allowed me to practice at a low rate. Sage and Danny are very warm people . Whether stopping by for their open mic every other Saturday or Sunday I think, or for lessons you are in good hands with them . — Google Reviews July 30, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Well-organized, professional, and very effective. Well-organized, professional, and very effective. I highly recommend Sage Music — Google Reviews July 28, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Helped me be more creative Honestly speaking, Sage Music has helped me be more creative with both my singing and piano skills . With these lessons I’ve had it’s been great. I like how the teachers are patient with me through learning the basic of music. Though I face some obstacles like getting my internet to work during the lessons, the teachers call to check if we’ll be attending. Besides the getting the right time to schedule the lessons, everything’s alright. — Google Reviews June 15, 2025 5 out of 5 stars 5 Stars 5 Stars June 5, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Super engaging with both of my kids We are new to Sage Music, our onboarding was very informative and Dan was super engaging with both of my kids . Their lessons are next week and they both are so excited to start. Thanks Dan for making our family feel super comfortable with a new environment! June 1, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Exceptional quality of instruction. Excellent experience with online lessons. I take clarinet lessons at Sage Music and am extremely pleased with the exceptional quality of instruction. I not local to Sage Music so I do my lessons online. I was a little worried about that before I started, but thanks to their high quality learning platform my experience has been excellent. Between their excellent instructors and science based teaching program Sage Music really stands out. Highly recommend. May 14, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Two months in, and it's been a wonderful experience. My son has been taking guitar lessons here at Sage Music for about 2 months now, and it has been a wonderful experience. Since the moment we walked it, everyone has been welcoming and helpful with any questions or anxiety we had. Every instructor (Arianna, Dan, Blake, and Austin) we have met has been knowledgeable and overall just happy to be there. The energy is contagious. It has allowed us to become more comfortable , which for my son is not an easy feat. He is super shy, but after every music lesson, he comes out excited and happy to have learned something new. 10/10 would recommend you start or continue your musical journey with the Sage Music team. May 7, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Loved the teacher recital! Blake invited me to the recital last week and it was very nice! Loved all the performances from the teachers, they all are very talented, the school installations are very nice too , I hope there’s more recitals like this in the future! April 29, 2025 5 out of 5 stars 5 Stars 5 Stars April 27, 2025 5 out of 5 stars The variety of classes offered and their caliber of teaching is astounding. Amazing school, amazing faculty, amazing venue. The variety of classes offered and their caliber of teaching is astounding. Can’t wait to see what the future holds for this wonderful group of artists. April 27, 2025 5 out of 5 stars The staff are excellent musicians and love teaching. I had an opportunity to tour the school and learn a bit about the teaching philosophy. The staff are excellent musicians and clearly love teaching. I highly recommend this school for those who want to begin learning to play an instrument or improve their current skills. Enroll today! @SageMusicCo April 27, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Sage Music is more than just lessons; it’s a home for anyone who loves and believes in the power of music. Sage Music’s Faculty Recital was nothing short of amazing! Every performance was packed with true talent and heart — you could tell the faculty aren’t just incredible musicians, but real artists who love what they do. Even though the online stream was a miss, it still captured the energy and soul of the night in a big way. The live event itself? Absolutely beautiful. Sage Music created a space that felt warm, welcoming, and full of life — the kind of place where music connects people and community is celebrated. It’s clear that Sage Music is more than just lessons; it’s a home for anyone who loves and believes in the power of music. I’m already looking forward to the next event! April 27, 2025 5 out of 5 stars The highlight of my week! Blake is an incredible voice coach and starting from the basics is ensuring that I have a well rounded education . Our meetings are the highlight of my week! He encourages community with both the faculty and other students. April 27, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Excellent music school with a tailored approach, and a growing community Excellent music school with a tailored approach. I'm not a seasoned musician but I feel comfortable and increasingly confident with my progress and program. My instructor, Blake, takes time to coach me through lessons without giving too much instruction but not letting me off easy. It's been a good environment for me to grow. Additionally, they have a growing community with events, recitals and general social activities . I highly recommend. April 27, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Warm and inviting atmosphere with friendly musicians Very warm and inviting atmosphere with friendly musicians. Totally enjoyed the faculty recital tonight. April 27, 2025 5 out of 5 stars 5 Stars 5 Stars April 27, 2025 5 out of 5 stars The environment is welcoming, professional, and supportive — perfect for beginners and advanced students alike. Sage Music has been an amazing experience from start to finish! The instructors are not only talented musicians but also incredible teachers who truly care about helping you reach your goals. They customize the lessons to fit your learning style and pace , which made a huge difference in my progress. The environment is welcoming, professional, and supportive — perfect for beginners and advanced students alike. I highly recommend Sage Music to anyone looking to learn, grow, and enjoy music! April 27, 2025 5 out of 5 stars My experiences at Sage Music has been the best music instruction I have ever received. Love the community aspect as well I have absolutely loved taking cello lessons here. I started out as an adult beginner , with some experience in piano, choir, and viola, and my experiences at Sage Music has been the best music instruction I have ever received . If you have the chance to take lessons from Austin, HE IS AMAZING . So kind , positive , with wonderful energy and presence . Love the community aspect as well , such a great place to support. April 27, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Phenomenal! Phenomenal! April 27, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Love the diversity in music genres presented in the faculty recital. Love the diversity in music genres presented in the faculty recital. April 27, 2025 5 out of 5 stars My son loves taking piano lessons here. Excellent talented musicians. My son loves taking piano lessons here. 100% recommend it April 27, 2025 5 out of 5 stars 5 Stars 5 Stars April 15, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Fantastic experience Fantastic experience - really lovely teachers that genuinely care and help you grow . Nice space in Long Island City too, and the monthly open mics are so much fun. — Google Reviews March 30, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Noticeable progress, group events and classes, and convenient parking! I primarily sing and play acoustic guitar. I'm taking voice lessons at save to improve my singing. My instructor is very in tune with my goals and is working with me specifically on singing while playing. I've got about 3 months of lessons and have made noticeable progress with the quality of my vocals. He's also working with me on ear training, which is something I really needed. The website makes it very easy to schedule classes either in person or virtually. It';s great to have their virtual option as I do travel from time to time. They also have special events for students like open mics and group instructions . I haven't yet taken advantage of these but I plan to, and it's a nice extra. They are very interested in students having a good experience, so the management is very easy to reach out to. I'd highly recommend Sage music to anyone who wants to improve their musical skills. Last but not least there's plenty of convenient paring right across the street! March 30, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Exceptional Vocal Lessons at Sage Music – A Transformative Experience! Exceptional Vocal Lessons at Sage Music – A Transformative Experience! I’ve been taking vocal lessons at Sage Music, and I can confidently say it’s been an incredible journey. Each class is dynamic, engaging, and tailored to my progress , making every lesson both challenging and rewarding. The incorporation of piano training alongside vocal techniques has truly elevated my understanding of music, helping me develop better pitch control, breath support, and overall vocal strength. The instructors at Sage Music are not only highly skilled but also deeply invested in their students’ growth. Their structured approach ensures steady improvement while keeping lessons fun and inspiring. Whether you’re a beginner or an advanced singer, this is the perfect place to hone your craft. If you’re looking for top-tier vocal lessons with piano accompaniment, I highly recommend Sage Music. The quality of instruction, the supportive environment, and the personalized approach make it an unbeatable choice. I’ve seen progress in every single lesson, and I’m excited to continue my musical journey here! Feb. 25, 2025 5 out of 5 stars If you're thinking of signing up... just do it! I’ve been taking singing lessons at Sage for about a year now and would absolutely recommend them! My instructor Blake has been amazing ; he’s very patient with me makes the lessons fun ! The rest of the staff are really friendly and welcoming . If you’re thinking of signing up for classes here, just do it. It will be a very rewarding experience . Jan. 25, 2025 5 out of 5 stars Sage Music helps you where you are at. My instructor just "gets it" Sage Music Drum Lessons gives you help where you are at and where you want to head. I have played drums 55 years and wanted to learn Jazz drums ….no problem , no because of my talent but Sage Music instructor “gets it’l Dec. 25, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Excellent online and in-person music school Excellent Music school , my daughter absolutely loved the time she spent with her instructors online and in person . Thanks for everything!!!! Nov. 25, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Great lessons, helpful, talented, and well-dressed staff and faculty, additional classes at no extra cost. One suggestion regarding goal setting. I've been going to Sage Music for about 2 months now and I'm happy to have found a school that teaches multiple instruments, voice, composition , etc. under one roof and also online . I think all the teachers and staff are great and very talented. Although I already have a musical background, I've come to Sage music to learn Jazz piano along with other instruments. My teacher Isaiah is very talented and someone I hope to play like someday. I love that on top of individual lessons , there are studio classes ( group classes ) where you can learn other instruments or just brush up more on your current instrument at no additional cost to your tuition . I enjoy attending those when I can. The "behind the scenes" staff is also very helpful for questions and concerns . The school itself is a beautiful renovated old house and there are plenty of music rooms. I compliment the staff and teachers for always dressing nice too . They also have a decent website and dashboard for students to choose lessons, communicate, and go over teacher notes . With that being said, I think there is an area of improvement. The 30 minute classes can go by fast so I'd like to maximize as much hands-on practice as possible. For goal setting, complicated theory and things that students get stuck on, I'd like to suggest less time spent during class when stuck and to utilize the website to provide resources and give homework as well as communicate detailed goals there as opposed to class time. Other than that, I'm very happy to be here and I know I'll be an even better musician with the lessons I'm getting. I recommend giving them a try! Nov. 25, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Sage Music is Awesome. Learning here is better than anywhere else I've tried. Sage Music is awesome . I took lessons in both Sax and Piano and learning was way different than when I was a kid. I actually absorbed the information rather than suffering through lessons and wasting my parents money. I was excited to show my practice off each week and make steps forward in my abilities. This way of learning is great and so much better than anywhere else I've ever tried. Oct. 25, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Started as a beginner. Daniel and Isaiah helped me accomplish my goals. I started taking drum lessons as a complete beginner and both Daniel and Isaiah did an amazing job of helping me learn my first song! They both listened to what my goals were at the beginning of each lesson and then worked to help me accomplish those goals . They also taught me how to train my ear so I could pick up the drum parts in different songs on my own. I highly recommend getting lessons from these guys! Oct. 25, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Focused music education and convenient scheduling Sage Music is terrific and totally focused on the music education and the well-being of their students. It was nice to be able to take 2 grandkids for simultaneous lessons, one to piano and the other to violin, on the same day and time — so convenient. Oct. 10, 2024 5 out of 5 stars The perfect instructor that fits our needs I just want to give a huge thank you to Evie for making us feel so welcomed when we first got there and for asking questions about my daughter to make sure she had the perfect instructor that fit her needs . She also responds so quickly and always greets you with a smile. Thank you Isaiah for allowing my little one to feel comfortable even when she is doubting herself and for giving her the tools to believe in herself. When I asked my daughter what she loves about this place she said: "He (Isaiah) gives me strategies to understand what I'm playing . I love that I can be myself and joke around with him. I enjoy the extra group piano session and how fun Isaiah makes it... I love that I don’t feel judged or pressured when I'm learning new things. I especially love that he makes me feel confident about what I’m doing." Oct. 8, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Seriously the best. We love it here! Seriously such a great place for learning ! Not only is it such a cool vibe, the teachers are extremely friendly and helpful . My 7 year olds teacher, Isaiah is seriously the BEST and we love it here! Sept. 24, 2024 5 out of 5 stars My 7 year old has been taking drum lessons... it's been amazing! My 7 year old has been taking drums from Daniel Jordan since January of 2023. It’s been amazing !! Daniel is patient and keeps him on track- he’s jamming out to Dream Theater, and rocking the double bass pedal. This has been a very rewarding and awesome experience . The folks at Sage are always helpful and friendly , and we couldn’t be more happy . Evie Gonzalez is fantastic and a pleasure to work with! We couldn’t recommend Sage anymore- the video lessons work flawlessly with very little hardware needed (computer with a camera and microphone), and you don’t have to leave home for lessons, saving time!! Don’t hesitate if you’re on the fence, give them a call get going! Sept. 22, 2024 5 out of 5 stars My daughter absolutely enjoys her lessons My daughter absolutely enjoys her time at Sage . She eagerly looks forward to her voice lessons. She does 30 minute lessons but prefers an hour! And she thoroughly enjoys having Huntley as her vocal coach, so much so that she does not mind at all that it’s a virtual lesson . Thank you, Huntley for encouraging and coaching my kiddo to reach her goal of becoming a singer/star! Sept. 5, 2024 5 out of 5 stars I've never felt overwhelmed I started at Sage a few years ago as a violin student. I enjoyed that very much and became interested in composing easy melodies so I could play along with them. I had a few composition lessons while I learnt the violin. I found composing really helpful as I didn't have a musical background. My sight reading improved as well as my understanding of rhythm, tempo etc. I have had composition lessons with Ben for over a year now and have just released my first collaboration. I'm truly grateful for Ben's patience and enthusiasm in our lessons. I wasn't sure which way my musical journey would go, and I am surprised that I've managed to do this. But bit by bit, Ben has given me the tools to make it all happen. I've never felt overwhelmed and never felt like I couldn't do it. I am also learning to compose for other instruments. My next song is in the pipes and I'm very excited to have another release Aug. 21, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Helped me take my playing to the next level Sage Music has been a great experience. Before coming to Sage, I played guitar off and on for about 20 years. I found myself playing the same chords, riffs, and patterns over and over. I wanted to expand my musical vocabulary and add depth to my playing. Adrian Aguilar was my guitar teacher at Sage. He taught me both theory and technique, and helped me take my playing to the next level . I also really like that Sage gave me the opportunity to perform what I was learning in front of an audience, which helped boost my confidence to play live . I strongly recommend Sage to anyone who is interested in music regardless of your experience level! Aug. 19, 2024 4 out of 5 stars Great company Great company. Very friendly service. Evie is the best for customer service and Daniel is amazing Teacher. Aug. 16, 2024 5 out of 5 stars My singing has improved 1,000 percent I have played the piano for 60 years, the bugle for 58 years and the electric guitar for 8 years. While I am not ready for America’s Got Talent, I can play them reasonably well. For the last 15 years I have attempted to learn to sing, with no success. I could easily hear that my singing was not in tune but was unable to correct the issue, even with many online vocal lessons and a lot of frustrating practice. My wife of 46 years would occasionally hear me practice and would provide well deserved constructive criticism that my singing was really bad. A couple months ago I decided to invest in some in person lessons at the Sage Music School in San Antonio Texas. So far I have taken 5 one hour lessons, over a 2 month time frame, with their instructor Blake Isbell. His lessons were very productive, providing me with warm up routines and core singing techniques. Practicing between lessons was very effective using the in depth practice guidance he provided for me on my personal Sage Music School learning application web page. Setting up lesson days and a lesson day change I made were very easy with their online scheduling web site. Blake and the school support staff made the learning experience very enjoyable and effective. While I am not yet ready for American Idol, I have already reached a singing skill level where I feel my singing has improved 1,000 percent . Yesterday, after my fifth one hour lesson with Blake Isbell at the Sage Music School, I decided to sing for my wife for the first time since I started the vocal lessons with Blake. When I finished singing the song New York New York for her, I asked her what she thought of my singing. Her response was “it was very good” and came with a big smile. I am looking forward to continuing my vocal development journey with Blake Isbell. He is truly a world class instructor teaching at a world class music school . Aug. 14, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Met our expectations The staff and instructors have been so easy to work with and schedule lessons for my son. We have been here for about 9 months and my son loves it. He is comfortable with his instructor, Isaiah able to ask questions when needing help and setting goals. So happy we were able to find a place that met our expectations of piano lessons and teaching my son how to read sheet music. Aug. 4, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Their method helps me learn faster and retain the music better Years ago, I played & studied music in high school and college, mostly classical and jazz. But I always wanted to sing and play both jazz and songs that I thought were cool or popular. I stopped playing music decades ago to raise a family and work full time in a demanding career. About a year ago, I decided to start playing piano again. I got my feet wet learning a couple of classical tunes with a wonderful teacher who worked with me on the Sage method. I met Isaiah as a substitute when the first teacher went on leave. He jumped right in and started helping me with pop and jazz tunes that I wanted to learn. And he got me to sing while I’m playing as I’m learning the songs, (which I wanted but was tentative about doing.) The method helps me learn faster (I still work, so time is limited), and I retain the songs better than I remember doing in the past. It’s been great! Not only am I learning to do what I wanted in a new way, but I’m also having a great time doing it! At first, I was concerned about learning online, but the platform is easy , and if I have a problem, Isaiah talks me through it. We can send YouTube links and sheet music to each other, if needed. I live in New York City and am taking lessons from Isaiah in San Antonio. We never would have had the chance to work together otherwise, and I’m really grateful for that opportunity. Evie in the office has always been helpful and pleasant to work with if I needed something. I highly recommend Sage Music! July 26, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Tailored around what works best for me The Sage Music school has been the perfect reintroduction for me and my guitar practice. Their approach and philosophy to learning is grounded in smart psychology/science, and the instructor I have (Josh) is super attuned to my learning styles and he tailors the courses around what works best for me . Can’t recommend them highly enough. July 23, 2024 5 out of 5 stars They made sure I got the lessons I wanted BEST MUSIC LESSONS EVER! Special shout-out to Dan J. for being so understanding, professional , and an incredibly talented person to take lessons from. I took drum lessons with him and he was so accommodating with making sure I got the type of lesson I wanted and needed. I look forward to going every week. The only reason I’m leaving is because I’m going to college out of state, otherwise I would definitely continue lessons! If you’re looking for any kind of music lesson, this is the place to go! Thank you guys! July 17, 2024 5 out of 5 stars I sing so much better and have more confidence Ms. Cristina is an amazing vocal teacher! She has helped me learn how to sing so much better and have more confidence , and she taught me how to use my voice in a healthy way when I sing and how to properly warm up my voice. 5 stars! :) July 15, 2024 5 out of 5 stars SAGE MUSIC ROCKS! My daughter has been taking lessons for almost a year now. The instructors are very knowledgeable on what they teach. They are great in figuring the right style of teaching that has helped my daughter advance in her piano skills. Would highly recommend this place. SAGE MUSIC ROCKS! July 7, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Great experience. Overall, would recommend. Great experience. We've been going here for over 6 months for our 9 year old son and we enjoy it. Professional teachers and staff. We like the flexibility of online and in-person lessons as necessary (Sometimes life happens). Overall, would recommend Sage Music to anyone in the area. July 3, 2024 5 out of 5 stars They are flexible and really take the time to understand your child's needs My son took guitar lessons with Jason. Jason and his team were amazing. They are very attentive and really take the time to understand your child's needs . They we're also very flexible . Our household is busy, so flexibility was greatly appreciated. Jason's feedback after lessons was very informative. I highly recommend this place for beginners or anyone ready for the next level in their music journey. July 2, 2024 5 out of 5 stars My son's teacher makes learning piano fun My son has been taking lessons at Sage Music for almost two years, and he absolutely loves it! He started right after his 4th birthday, and they are great with small children. His teacher, Isaiah, is really patient with him and does a really good job of molding the lesson to whatever my son's interests are that day. He makes learning piano fun for him. June 30, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Personalized lessons and the school itself is inviting and well-equipped Sage Music School in San Antonio, TX, has been a wonderful place for guitar lessons. The instructors at Sage are incredibly knowledgeable and passionate about music, providing a supportive environment. They personalize lessons to suit each student's goals and abilities, whether you're a beginner or looking to refine your technique. The school itself is inviting and well-equipped, ensuring every session is enjoyable and productive . Thanks to Sage, my guitar skills have noticeably improved, and I wholeheartedly recommend them to anyone seeking quality music education. Thank you so much Adrian for being patient with me, I really appreciate. June 28, 2024 5 out of 5 stars If you're looking learn, look no further Sage Music has been a great experience. It has been a very welcoming and supportive place to continue my learning of the saxophone. Prior to Sage, I was taking lessons online. While that teacher is great at what she does, it takes the whole experience up a notch when in person. This is where Daniel comes in. Daniel's mastery of the instrument really shines through in his teaching. Whether its talking me through pain points (wind speed anyone?), ensuring that I don't feel rushed when playing a particular section of music, and general patience/understanding with my constant mess-ups, he really wants you succeed. He ensures that you are equipped with the technique and know how to succeed at this difficult instrument. And when you do succeed, there will be no one happier in your success than him. Sage is great. They have a great supporting staff, and the teachers I have interacted with, during my time here, seem to all be of the same mindset: each student matters . If you're looking to pick up that dusty ol woodwind in your closet, or want to start learning it anew, look no further than Daniel and Sage Music! June 26, 2024 5 out of 5 stars It's been a wonderful and rewarding experience overall I attended Sage Music for a little over a year taking weekly lessons on guitar, and I have to say, it's been a wonderful and rewarding experience overall. I'd played guitar (self-taught) for most of my life, but definitely plateaued and was feeling stuck. Lessons with Adrian at Sage have taken me a lot further than I thought they ever would. Learning basic music notation, connecting the fretboard in new ways, and just the adaptability of the lessons to focus on what I wanted to learn and get better at has made me all around a more confident player. June 19, 2024 5 out of 5 stars They focus on their students interests I am extremely grateful to attend voice, piano, and guitar lessons at Sage Music! Their wonderful staff create a warm environment and their classes are enjoyable. I appreciate the way they teach students and focus on their students interests first! Evie (who works for Sage) is the sweetest and will help you if you have any questions! Thank you Sage Music! June 19, 2024 5 out of 5 stars You will not be disappointed Sage Music is amazing. They have created an effective and comfortable place to learn to play guitar. Jason Sagebiel is a tremendous instructor. In each lesson he is able to provide an easy-to-follow practice approach that helps me make progress and is fun! I really appreciate that the approach is very welcoming and the atmosphere is warm and friendly . You will not be disappointed choosing Sage for your music lessons. June 17, 2024 5 out of 5 stars The progress I've made in a short time is amazing I've been taking guitar classes with Jason, and it's been an incredible experience! The progress I've made in a short time is amazing , and the staff is great. Highly recommended! June 11, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Learned so much in an accepting and encouraging environment I take voice lessons here. All the teachers are amazing , and all the management is amazing, very respectful and helpful . I learned so much in my lessons, in an accepting and encouraging environment. I also really grew my confidence through voice lessons here. Thank you! June 11, 2024 5 out of 5 stars My teacher is invested in my growth I am very pleased with the piano lessons I've had at Sage. It is easy to navigate the portal to book lessons and having the flex plan is helpful since with my job, it is difficult to have a consistent time and day to go to lessons. I've appreciated all the patience and expertise form my teacher, Isaiah. It is apparent he is invested in my growth as I re-learn how to play the piano. I've learn so much from him! June 9, 2024 5 out of 5 stars I always look forward to my lessons Very good music school. All the staff are friendly and helpful . The atmosphere is very relaxed and cozy . My teacher Adrian has helped me learn a lot about guitar and bass. I always look forward to my lessons. June 5, 2024 5 out of 5 stars My son is progressing much quicker than I thought I’m very happy with Sage Music. They’re very reliable and they care about their students. They call me sometimes how my son is doing and ask me whether there’s any questions and concerns. My son is taking flute lessons from Mr. Conklin. He’s a wonderful teacher and very friendly too. My son just started to learn but he progresses much quicker than I thought. I can recommend Sage Music to anyone! June 4, 2024 5 out of 5 stars I couldn’t be happier with my lessons As a current student, I have made leaps and bounds at Sage. I was able to find the right instructor, to fit my tastes, learning ability and schedule (Isaiah, whom I can’t speak enough good things about) . The staff is all friendly, professional and love what they do. The coffee bar is always a plus. Lastly but most importantly, it is a veteran owned business. I couldn’t be happier with my lessons and time there! June 1, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Joel is the best piano teacher!! Joel is the best piano teacher !! He is super fun and knowledgeable. May 27, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Very organized, very personalized Amazing! Love this music school for my six year old son, very organized , very personalized . Evie is fantastic organizer and professor Daniel is a very good piano teacher. April 30, 2024 5 out of 5 stars I appreciate their platform My child has been taking piano classes virtually with Sage for 18 months. We found a great teacher match with Christina. Studio with Joel has been a good addition too. I appreciate their platform, which makes reviewing class notes and rescheduling easy . Evie has also provided very patient customer service whenever needed. April 30, 2024 5 out of 5 stars The personalization has separated Sage from any other music lessons I've received My piano lessons have been absolutely fantastic here. Joel has been amazing and he’s taught me so much! The personalization of my development has separated Sage from any other music lessons I've received. The option to do online lessons has really helped me out a lot and the customer support has beyond exceeded my expectations . Look no further!! April 23, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Hope your lessons are as valuable to you as they’ve been for me I enjoy receiving piano class from Sage Music. They’ve got remarkable teachers in all aspects of music. Michael who’s my instructor has been very patient and supportive in the process of my lessons in piano. I highly recommend music enthusiast to join receiving lessons of your choice. You won’t regret it! Hope your lessons are as valuable to you, as they’ve been for me. Thank you to the staff of Sage Music for making it possible for all to have a rewarding experience through in person lessons as well as online. You’re the best! April 19, 2024 5 out of 5 stars They really know their stuff and seem genuinely excited to help us learn My son and I have had great experiences with Sage Music. Daniel and Adrian really know their stuff and seem genuinely excited to help us learn. They communicate effectively and at the right pace, and they adjust as needed . They are relatable and human , and that’s really helpful because we learn not just from what they are explicitly saying and doing, but what they themselves are also learning and sharing in real time. Thanks! April 17, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Exceptionally helpful, would recommend The whole team at Sage Music have been exceptionally helpful with my pursuit of the guitar. Adrian has been a great source of help and practice tips and Evie is always a joy to talk with prior to my lessons. I would recommend anyone wanting to learn to play an instrument to check this place out. April 3, 2024 5 out of 5 stars They help musicians of any age meet their goals Great Instructors. Very patient and disciplined in their approach. Help the aspiring musician of any age work toward meeting their goals . The fact that all lessons are video taped and notes taken is an academic plus for the student as they can go back and review history and lessons plans. March 29, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Very nice, attentive, and knowledgable Very nice in-person location, and robust online portal . The staff is attentive and the instructors are knowledgeable and approachable . March 1, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Transformational voice lessons Sage Music is a wonderful place to take vocal lessons. The staff is very welcoming, kind and knowledgeable. They are able to pair you with the perfect teacher. I am very happy to have connected to Sage Music because they are transformational. I highly recommend them. Feb. 28, 2024 5 out of 5 stars You will not be let down! If you are looking for music lessons for any age, Sage Music is the place to be! I took up tenor saxophone as an adult since I made the silly mistake of quitting it when I was in middle school. But now that I have a little more time and money, I’ve decided to get back into it. Daniel, my instructor, is a true maestro of alto/tenor saxophone, flute and clarinet. In just 4 months I’ve went from not being able to play well to playing Sound of Silence and jazz duets with Daniel. The Sage Music building is a gorgeous building filled with all things music. Evie, one of the Sage Music staff, is always so nice and welcoming and quick to respond to any of your needs with your account or scheduled lessons. Your teacher and staff will go out of their way to attend your recitals and music events. The owner is also a military vet like myself so it’s great to share some war stories and connect with a fellow warrior. Sage Music appreciates veterans and offers a military discount as well! The technology at Sage Music is also amazing. You can do lessons online very easily if you couldn’t make it in person or just happen to live out of town. The student dashboard online is great to recap your lessons and keep your goals and teachers notes in mind. Highly recommend Sage Music, you will not be let down! Feb. 25, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Great improvement in just 4 lessons Absolutely amazing school! My baby takes piano lessons with Mr. Michael. He’s only a few weeks in and has learned basic notes, chords and a song so far. My 4 year old had no previous musical experience when we started last month — he’s shown great improvement in just 4 lessons . The price is fair for the quality of music lessons. They have an organized curriculum and easy access online portal for notes, lessons and other materials and resources. It’s really a great team of teachers. Looking forward to my baby’s first recital! Feb. 6, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Always a highlight of my week I've been at Sage for almost a year and a half and it has been AWESOME. Trying to pick up violin as an adult is hard but Sage has made it fun and well worth all the money and time invested into it. They've taught me everything from the ground up and have always been focused on my goals and what I want to achieve. Going to my lessons is always a highlight of my week both for what I learn and the environment. The building is gorgeous and welcoming and the staff are professional and genuinely friendly (and also hilarious). I can't say enough good things about Sage. Trust that they really care about you and your musical journey. Jan. 26, 2024 5 out of 5 stars I have peace of mind Staff casual and courteous people. I have peace of mind knowing they want us to learn due to the many questions on what the individual wants to learn & play. Jan. 21, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Their teachers encourage & challenge them at the same time If you’re looking for a wonderful place , in San Antonio, to get involved in music lessons, this is your spot. I have three (children) working on music; guitar, piano, & violin. Their teachers do an awesome job of meeting them where are . They are also encouraging & challenging them at the same time. This is not easy as all three are at different levels of musical growth. The front office staff is extremely helpful as well! Jan. 17, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Wholeheartedly recommend to anyone, any age I started three years ago with zero knowledge of singing, unsure if I could even learn as an adult. Discovering Sage Music and Christina Christofi was a game-changer . Christina's warm, professional, and patient approach immediately eased my nerves. From the basics of chest and head voice to finding my range , Christina guided me every step of the way. Her dedication to ensuring correctness in vocal exercises stands out, yet she does it with kindness, fostering a safe space where mistakes are embraced without judgment. In three years, I've learned two songs and expanded my comfort zone to embrace higher notes with a head voice – something I really didn't think could happen, but she believed in me. Christina's teaching style is not about moving through lessons for the sake of time; she genuinely cares about her students' success and creates an environment where one can learn and grow without embarrassment . While performing on stage isn't my goal (for now, who knows what the future brings), Christina has inspired me to set new targets. In 2024, I'm going to work with her to record and share me singing a song on Instagram – a testament to the confidence and skills she has helped me develop. Beyond being an excellent teacher, Christina is a remarkable and professional performer with a beautiful voice. I feel fortunate to have her as my guide on this musical journey and wholeheartedly recommend her to anyone, regardless of age, who aspires to learn how to sing. Jan. 16, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Great experiences Sage Music is the first place I have used for piano lessons for my son and Isaiah his instructor has been great. He keeps things light and engaging with the lessons which has slowly allowed my son to open up. The weekend online sharing lesson with Joel are an added bonus in getting in some extra practice. Great experiences with Sage Music. Jan. 14, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Top notch music school Top notch music school. My son has been going here for that last year and we highly recommend it . We’ve tried other schools and were dissatisfied due to the lack of structure and ability to actually teach their students. Isaiah is great and has high expectations, which I appreciate. Jan. 14, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Amazing! Joel is an amazing teacher. I am excited to grow with his instruction and knowledge of piano. Thank you, Joel! Jan. 9, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Overall a wonderful experience Joel is a great teacher and Evie has been super helpful in managing schedules. Overall had a wonderful experience with Sage team. Jan. 4, 2024 5 out of 5 stars Such a blessing It is such a blessing to have a school located in the heart of San Antonio. They offer in class and remote teaching. Most importantly this school has talented, patience and kind teachers and staff my son has learned so much from. Dec. 21, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Lessons tailored to how best I learn I love Sage Music school! Several years ago I studied classical guitar with the owner, Jason. He had such an in-depth knowledge of the learning process and approached teaching in a way that was systematic yet was still tailored to how I best learned . So of course now that I decided to learn piano, Sage was the only place I considered. They even offer online classes, which is surprisingly easier than it sounds and convenient too. After an interview with Sage, they recommended the teacher that they thought was right for me, and they couldn't have been more spot on! Joel is patient, friendly and his knowledge and passion for music is immediately evident upon meeting him. He really makes lessons relaxing and un-intimidating , as I felt comfortable playing in front of him after after only a handful of lessons -and that's surprising as I can get quite shy about that stuff. He is very patient with all my questions too and knows how to work with older learners. The thing that really has surprised me so much about studying with Joel is that he really somehow understood rather quickly what music I would enjoy learning to and how he continued to tailor the music lessons the longer we worked together. It has felt so organic. I've been really happy with all my experiences in studying piano with Joel, and all the people at Sage that have been so helpful. Dec. 18, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Rehabilitating my mind and heart with music The school has really re-opened up my world to music . I hadn’t played any instruments in years and decided to learn guitar. The instructors at this school are all wonderful, making it all the more easier to quickly learn . This school has been a wonderful tool for rehabilitating my mind and heart to re-fall back in love with learning and integrating music back into my daily life! Thank you soo much Sage Music! Dec. 16, 2023 5 out of 5 stars It's been so great! Great instructors and a very welcoming place! I’ve been learning cello here for about a year and it’s been so great! — Google Reviews Dec. 14, 2023 5 out of 5 stars They teach you in a way that uniquely works for you I have been taking lessons for a couple of months now, and the things I've learned and the progress I've made is more than I could ask for. They really know how to teach you in a way that uniquely works for you . I still struggle with some things, but I have no doubt that my teacher Paul will help me overcome those hurdles soon enough. Nov. 13, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Five Stars receptive instructors and caring staff Oct. 30, 2023 5 out of 5 stars My experience so far has been great on so many levels I began online guitar lessons with Ben as a beginner 6 months ago, and my experience so far has been great on so many levels. In addition to being an extremely skilled guitar player, Ben is a knowledgeable, patient, flexible, and friendly teacher. He provides insightful tips on technique, and if I am struggling with something in particular, he knows exactly what to suggest to make things easier— something I find very valuable. The Sage music team really cares about their students and frequently asks about ways to improve. The online lesson platform has ended up being very convenient and works surprisingly well — I’ve never had an issue with it. Ben takes detailed notes throughout each lesson, which are all saved for reference and can be accessed at any point. This is one of my favorite features. Six months ago, I could barely play a single chord on guitar, and now I am playing chord progressions, learning theory, and have begun writing my own simple melodies on guitar — a feat I could have never dreamed of without the help of Ben and Sage Music School. Oct. 27, 2023 5 out of 5 stars I am thrilled with what I have learned this year Sage Music is a great school with excellent instructors. Their method is highly engaging and rewarding . I am thrilled with what I have learned this year with Jason on guitar. He is the best! I highly recommend this school to anyone, any age looking to learn music. Oct. 27, 2023 5 out of 5 stars I am thrilled with what I have learned this year Sage Music is a great school with excellent instructors. Their method is highly engaging and rewarding . I am thrilled with what I have learned this year with Jason on guitar. He is the best! I highly recommend this school to anyone, any age looking to learn music. Oct. 14, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Thank you for making me love music again I’ve been taking online singing classes with Paul for over a year now. I look forward to my lesson every week and actually enjoy practicing in between classes. As a child I’ve always hated music lessons but I'm convinced that I would have loved them at Sage Music. I cannot recommend them enough!!! Thank you for making me love music again. Oct. 9, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Very skilled, professional, and fun! We love Sage Music! The teachers have been great; very skilled, professional, and fun ! It's an excellent way to bring top-notch music education into your home, even if you're rural. Oct. 3, 2023 5 out of 5 stars My daughter looked forward to her lesson more than anything else birthday-related Our kids love their piano lessons and teachers. My daughter (7) had a lesson on her birthday and she was looking forward to the lesson more than anything else birthday-related. Sept. 28, 2023 5 out of 5 stars I have hit notes in places that I never dreamed of I’ve been going to Sage Music for a while now. My experience there has been nothing but wonderful, exciting, and laid-back . The staff are amazing people. I am currently working with Paul on my singing vocals. Like all the staff members, he is amazing, understanding, puts you first, and he makes sure that you understand the subject that you’re working on. Because of him and Sage Music, I have experienced positive things with my singing and I have hit notes in places that I never dreamed of . To conclude if anybody is looking for a place where they can be themselves, not be judged, and run away from every day hustle and bustle, then I will highly recommend the school for you. Sept. 23, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Ellos te dan la atención que necesitas Excelente servicio de parte de todo el personal, siempre con una alegría y amabilidad. El lugar es extremadamente agradable, limpio, fresco, grande y muy bonito. Tienes tus clases en privado con tu maestro. Cien porciento profesional. Recomiendo a Sage Music para tu superación musical porque ellos te dan la atención que necesitas . Gracias, Sage Music. — Google Reviews Aug. 20, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Completely revolutionized the way my son plays the piano Sage Music has completely revolutionized the way my son plays the piano. Isaiah has opened his eyes to the world of jazz, empowering my 13 year old to play with greater freedom and creativity . Partnering with his interests and love for certain songs and artists, Isaiah has prepared our son for the next level, able to play now with others and improvise among chords . Isaiah has even invited us to listen to local musicians and bands. We can’t recommend this conservatory or its talented team enough. Sage Music is truly a special place! Aug. 14, 2023 5 out of 5 stars What else can we ask for? My son was learning the flute at school in band, and we wanted to encourage him to keep playing while he was out during summer break, so we signed him up for Sage Music online classes. He had enjoyed all those lessons and learned how to play John Williams - Star Wars: Duel of the Fates and more. Later, he decided to pursue learning the piano since he gets to play the flute during band. All the teachers collaborated with him on how to practice and he learned one of our FAVORITE songs , Hans Zimmer - Interstellar: Main Theme on the piano. All teachers made sure to explore what my son wanted to learn and customize the lessons based from that. They encouraged him to learn more and explore as well on how to practice between lessons. He liked all of them! - Great Teachers - Professional Administrators - Worked with our schedules - Keeps the Parents involved when needed - Willing to answer questions and provide suggestions for supplies and sheet music What else can we ask for? I recommend anyone who is interested in learning music to sign up at Sage Music! =o) Aug. 9, 2023 5 out of 5 stars The best music school our kids have ever attended We moved here from LA recently and needed to find a new piano teacher for our boys. This is the best music school our kids have ever attended. They love coming to lessons , which are customized to their interest (one is into hip hop and jazz, the other is into 80s music). Our teacher Isaiah is great with the boys and the office is incredibly helpful with scheduling. Can't say enough good things about this place. Also nice place to chill when kids are in lessons. Aug. 3, 2023 5 out of 5 stars The only program I've stayed with Sage Music has been the only program I've stayed with. The live 1:1 video lessons are excellent. My teacher, Mario, has been fantastic in helping and guiding me towards reaching my musical goals in playing the classical guitar. He and the school have taken great care in understanding exactly what I want to get out of the program and go to great lengths to design the program accordingly. Aug. 2, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Matched to your style of learning Excellent teachers matched to your style of learning. I feel I progressed at a faster rate due to their instruction. July 23, 2023 5 out of 5 stars A better sound than I have ever made I learned flute from Mr. Daniel Flores for about 6 months, and it was great. I had learned flute for a long time when I was a kid, and this was my first time learning it in 10 years. I could pick up my skills quickly and was able to learn the song I wanted to play, with the better sound than I have ever made . Daniel was friendly, not too strict but gave me just enough professional coaches when I needed. Other than lessons, adjusting schedules or making reservations were also handy once I got used to the website. I recommend it especially when you want to learn something new and develop your skills in details. — Google Reviews July 19, 2023 5 out of 5 stars I couldn't be more grateful I had a wonderful experience with Sage Music. I started during the pandemic and it kept my head a little more sane. Now guitar/music has become a much bigger part of my life and I couldn't be more grateful . Thank you all for what you do. You have a great program and team. I'll continue to recommend you all to anyone looking for lessons. July 17, 2023 5 out of 5 stars A great online learning experience Sage provides a great online learning experience. I took guitar lessons from Mario - Very professional , highly skilled, patient, and a pleasure getting to know. I would highly recommend to anyone looking to improve their music playing. July 5, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Best music school hands down! Best music school hands down! Very professional , talented instructors all around! Shout out to Isaiah my piano teacher! July 2, 2023 5 out of 5 stars The child is their main priority and they want the child to thrive I'm very pleased with Sage Music School. This school was recommended to me by another Music instructor. The staff is very accommodating and easy to work with. The child is their main priority and they want the child to thrive. My granddaughter loves to go to class and her instructor, Michael is the best. He has a lot of patience with her and makes sure she understands before moving on. I am very impressed with the way the school operates. June 28, 2023 5 out of 5 stars The results have been amazing! My niece is in high school and joined mariachi as a violinist and vocalist. To help her improve on her upcoming solo we enrolled her in voice lessons and the results have been amazing ! Her voice teacher took the time to determine my nieces learning style, and to plan specific goals for her future performances. They also showed up to her recital to see her solo perform, which was super special for my niece and the whole family! We love Sage Music and would recommend it for anyone looking for music or voice lessons. June 19, 2023 5 out of 5 stars A very fun and educational experience This was a very fun and educational experience for me throughout the year. I have to say, Mr. Mario Quintanilla was a very excellent teacher and he really brought an enjoyable atmosphere during our online lessons. He was able to help me learn the songs I wanted while also keeping it technical and still taught me music theory. I can see why you guys hired Mario in the first place, amazing guitarist and conductor. June 18, 2023 5 out of 5 stars It's been amazing! My daughter and I have both been taking music lessons with Sage for the past ~7months (my daughter takes piano with Jacob, while I take guitar with Mario). The flexibility of scheduling has been amazing - the online dashboard is great, as is the customer service of the admin staff. The teachers themselves are absolutely phenomenal . Mario has gone above and beyond to understand my specific musical goals and how playing guitar fits into them, even working with me to write the guitar accompaniment to a cover of a song I had conceptualized (which I'm sure hasn't been easy)! Meanwhile, Jacob somehow has managed to help my highly distractible 8yo get nicely proficient in piano over videoconference - his patience is unbelievable! Thank you, Sage, for helping us keep music in our lives in this really practical format! June 14, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Customer service is out of this world The instructors and support staff are incredible. Customer service is out of this world. Compassionate and genuinely interested in the students . June 6, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Truly knows how to work with, inspire, and teach children My 10 year old son has been with Sage since early in the pandemic, first taking piano lessons with Jacob and now voice with Paul and we absolutely could not be happier! They truly know how to work with, inspire, and teach children. Initially I was hesitant about online instruction and if it would be effective, but that was put to rest after the first lesson. It's a well oiled machine and it felt as if he was sitting in the same room. The great progress we've seen is thanks to the perfect blend of instruction, constructive criticism, patience, and time spent getting to know my son to understand how he learns best. His voice has improved tremendously and his confidence has grown with each lesson. As a mom, I really appreciate the seamless experience and support that Sage offers. From flexible scheduling, periodic check-ins to see how it's going and to learn if there's any room for improvement, and just the general level of professionalism from everyone there. We're thrilled to be part of the Sage family. May 25, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Totally recommend singing lessons! I have been learning how to sing with Sage music for almost a year now. I am very grateful of my singing teacher Paul who has been both very informative and validating on this hobby that I've decided to work on. Being able to sing or participate in performing music in any way is such a wonderful thing that as human beings we've explored since the stone ages. Totally recommend! May 20, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Top notch music lessons! Top notch music lessons! I’m an adult learner and Sage has balanced technique, theory, and practice in a customized program that is far better than any I’ve experienced elsewhere . Jason is extremely knowledgeable and an effective presenter and mentor. May 11, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Well worth the money This has been the best experience ! For a busy adult trying to learn an instrument, the flexibility of Sage Music is perfect . I have my weekly virtual cello lessons on Sunday afternoon in my living room. My instructor is fantastic at giving me different approaches to learning my instrument and has helped me to obtain my goals that I have set for being able to knowledgeably play the cello within 6 months. And the price is no more than traditional lessons but with much greater flexibility . Well worth the money!!! May 6, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Learned a lot in a very short amount of time I really enjoy my voice lessons with Paul. He has taught me alot in a very short amount of time. I would recommend going here to anyone looking for voice lessons. May 3, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Studying guitar for the first time and it's been a wonderful experience I'm 64 years old, studying guitar for the first time. I still work and, as a busy professional, don't have the luxury of having lots of practice time. In other words, I suck at guitar. My teacher's great! He's going at my pace. He's very patient and impresses as being genuinely interested in helping me achieve my goals . My lessons are fun and informative . It's been a wonderful experience . May 1, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Couldn’t be more satisfied Sage music has helped me learn about music theory and composition for piano. I’ve been working with Isaiah Cosey now for a few months and he’s been a great teacher. Couldn’t be more satisfied with the teaching style - they have really molded the one on one classes to better fit how I learn and they have been flexible with my schedule . Overall, a great experience . April 26, 2023 5 out of 5 stars You will not regret it Bottomline Up Front: I highly recommend Sage Music to anyone wanting to learn, improve, or be held accountable to their music practice. You will not regret it. Also, they have a veteran discount on their monthly plan. # --- I started guitar lessons with Jason about 2 months ago. I came in with a decent music theory foundation but struggling to play the guitar well. I needed someone to help me stay accountable to my practice to reach my end goal of expressing myself through music. Jason from Sage Music has been awesome in helping clean up my playing technique to produce beautiful sounds from my guitar without straining anymore! He also helped me find a good guitar after helping me realize that my old pawn shop guitar was damaged (by me) and improper for my style of music (classical vs. acoustic). Following his instruction and recommendations has been challenging at first [because of me], but I have only gotten better by trusting him. My improvements in playing have yielded to the point to where I wrote my first microsong this past weekend (and I really like my song too!). We are also currently working through a Johnny Cash classic to help reinforce the techniques and lessons. The Sage Music website deserves a lot of praise in that it shows all the scheduling and practice notes/goals. Most tasks (rescheduling, payment updates, etc.) are handled easily through the website via tickets. Jason and others also maintain blog posts that have been helpful for understanding or reviewing other concepts like the anatomy of a guitar, how to properly hold the guitar or pick, etc. My previous experience of lessons from childhood in no way match the quality and organization of Sage Music. Some days I almost do not believe we have such a solid music school here in San Antonio. April 23, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Lesson plans that fit my interests I have piano lessons with Joel. He has so much patience for me! He listens to my learning needs and designs lesson plans that fit best with my interests . I really appreciate Joel and his style of teaching. April 10, 2023 5 out of 5 stars I've really enjoyed the experience I've been taking piano lessons in-person with Isaiah and have really enjoyed the experience and the progress I've made. Classes are flexible and drill down on specific areas that you in particular are interested in exploring; for me that's been a mix of music theory, composition, and fluency. Isaiah is very knowledgeable, passionate about music, adept at suggesting new ways to approach or improve a song, and just great to work with. Everyone at Sage is friendly and Evie particularly been very helpful with answering questions and handling scheduling issues. April 3, 2023 2 out of 5 stars The teacher is good but their cancellation policy The teacher is good, but their cancelation policy is something to be carefull. i spoke with jason about just needing a month of clases in order to prepare my son for his audition, but when register to log in into their wedside they put me in a membership which was charge one more month and never refund or give credit of it. almost $500 lost just because they thought i wanted more time. no fair Response from the owner Thank you for your feedback, Mayerlyn. We strive to ensure that everyone has a positive experience with us. When you registered with us, we made sure that the policies were clear - as we do with all students - by going over the cancellation policy with you on the phone, and having you sign the policy before you made payment. You signed the agreement on October 24th, 2022 when you registered with us. In addition to the signed policies, a link to our policy is on our payment form, on every invoice that we sent you, and it is also publicly available on our website at https://www.sagemusic.co/policies/. Every payment receipt you received also has a reminder about the cancellation policy. Because we booked our teacher’s time for your lessons, we do have to pay our teacher for that time - otherwise, we wouldn’t be able to keep such great teachers around. This is why we have the cancellation policy. We do understand you disputed the credit card charge for December’s lessons, even though your son did take lessons with us on December 4th and Dec 7th. In the end, your bank did agree with us that the charge was valid and that you did not cancel in advance as you had agreed to do. That is why your bank settled the dispute in our favor. Thank you again for your feedback, and we wish you the best. March 22, 2023 5 out of 5 stars I would recommend them to anyone!! Love this place!! They have helped my daughters voice sound so much better . They are professional at what they do. Very caring about their students!!! I would recommend them to anyone!! March 16, 2023 5 out of 5 stars The perfect platform to learn I had a fantastic experience with sage music. I found the class structure suited to my abilities. It was a very easy, convenient process with Sage staff online to get started, communication, and all the way through. It was a fantastic learning experience , and Sage was the perfect platform to learn. Feb. 4, 2023 5 out of 5 stars My online lessons are fun and informative I'm a beginner adult violin student. Sage has been really flexible and accommodating . All the staff are very excited about the future of Sage and their enthusiasm rubs off on the students. Most of my lessons are online as I live in Australia, but I had an opportunity to see the San Antonio school in person. All the new renovations provide an inspirational space for learning . My lessons with Michael are fun and informative. He's great on strings and I hope he goes busking to spread his good vibe. 🎻 🎻 Feb. 2, 2023 5 out of 5 stars My son's teacher really lit a fire within him Piano lessons with Miss Christine have been great. My son learns differently, and when one thing didn’t work, she was able to switch gears and find what really lit a fire within him . She didn’t expect him to fit into a mold, it was much more about bringing the joy of music to him . He has fallen in love with it to the point where I do not ever have to encourage him to practice. He approaches the piano to practice and explore it often. I also like that this music school has multiple instruments available, so if my son wants to expand his horizons and try new instruments, I don’t have to start the teacher search all over. I can just let the school know and they will set it up for me. Jan. 30, 2023 5 out of 5 stars I learn so much every lesson I have taken guitar lessons with Sage since 2021 and I have really enjoyed them! My instructor, Mario, is AMAZING!! He's a great teacher. I learn so much every lesson. He even helped me put together a song for my fiancé! I could not recommend Mario and Sage Music enough! Jan. 7, 2023 5 out of 5 stars I learned how to “learn” Ben is a talented guitarist, and an outstanding teacher . He is very helpful and insightful; I learned a lot about how to “learn” to play the guitar! Jan. 7, 2023 5 out of 5 stars You won't get results like this anywhere else Sage has the highest quality of music lessons, period . They teach on their own scientifically-backed learning system so their lessons can't be substituted with YouTube or any other pre-made instruction tool which is rare in music schools. Everything is tailored to you (time, teacher, focus of lesson) so you're never stuck learning what you don't need to know. I loved that! That's exactly how all schooling should be! You also get your teacher's expert, undivided attention during your lesson which makes a HUGE difference in progress week-to-week! Join if you really want to see results. Worth every penny because you won't get results this great anywhere else. — Google Reviews Jan. 3, 2023 5 out of 5 stars So much growth in both my kids! Mario is a phenomenal teacher. Both of my boys have been in lessons about 2 months and I have seen so much growth . He does great with both of them (six years old and ten years old). He’s great at pushing them but not making them feel bad for not practicing or life getting busy. We love Mario. Jan. 2, 2023 5 out of 5 stars Music theory here was fun Isaiah is an excellent instructor. He’s able to make music theory palatable and fun to learn . Dec. 25, 2022 5 out of 5 stars I would highly recommend signing up for piano lessons I really enjoy my piano classes with my instructor Paul. Everyone at Sage Music is very friendly and I would highly recommend signing up for music lessons with Sage Music School. Nov. 30, 2022 5 out of 5 stars Online learning might seem impossible but Sage makes it work well I'm extremely grateful for my time at Sage Music with Jacob Silver. Sage itself is a wonderful music school . I started taking lessons in person at the Queens location. When the pandemic hit, Sage made a smooth transition to online learning. I didn't feel like I missed a beat with my lessons. Their online infrastructure has only grown since then, and they've worked to make the experience more enjoyable and streamlined. Online learning might seem impossible with something like learning an instrument. But Sage makes it work, and they make it work well. My teacher, Jacob, helped me explore music in ways I wasn't even imagining when first starting at Sage. He always wanted to make sure that I was getting the most out of my lessons and worked to cater each lesson to what best suited my needs . We worked on technique, music theory, composition, and a lot more. Jacob was always patient and friendly as we worked through material. I'm grateful for the wealth of knowledge he shared with me weekly. I have a much larger appreciation for piano playing and, more importantly, music thanks to him. March 17, 2022 5 out of 5 stars Just the right blend of support, encouragement, play, and challenge Brian has been a fantastic drum teacher for my son. He provides just the right blend of support, encouragement, play, and challenge my son needs. His dedication to music and childhood education has been apparent in every lesson. I’m so grateful for the positive influence Brian has had on my son’s musical skills and on his skills as a student in general. Jan. 15, 2022 5 out of 5 stars Surprised and thrilled with the progress I’m making I’m a beginning, grey-haired, adult saxophone student who has been studying the past several months with Michael Conklin at the Sage Music School. I am surprised and thrilled with the progress I’m making learning to play my alto sax. I worried that it would take me forever to decode the dots and squiggles on a piece of sheet music. Well, thanks to Michael’s guidance, teaching, and encouragement I’m not only reading music, but I’m also playing the correct notes on the saxophone! Currently we meet over Google Meet which has been so convenient the past many months. In each lesson I work with Michael on building my skills, understanding a bit about music theory as is applies to my lessons, and working on tunes or riffs that let me practice those new skills and learning. I don’t feel at all pressured in my lessons. I see Michael as my saxophone learning consultant! Here’s a good example of how Michael’s teaching methodology works well for me: I sent him an audio clip of a George Coleman riff. I asked Michael if this was something that at my beginning level I could learn. During my lesson, Michael flawlessly played the riff. He responded “Yes, Mark, you can play it. The riff is in the key of A, it starts with an E, but all of the notes in the riff are not in the key of A. So have at it and we’ll review at your next lesson.” And sure enough, over the next few days, I figured out the riff. It was such as feeling of accomplishment . And Michael set it up so that I could succeed! In all, I’m very happy with the Sage Music School, my teacher, and the school’s administrative team . Sept. 13, 2021 5 out of 5 stars I highly recommend to piano players at all levels of experience! Amazing experience taking piano lessons with Sage Music School. Jacob Silver (my teacher) has introduced to me many gems of knowledge to improve my playing. I stopped taking lessons about 20 years ago but still played piano, and I’m so glad that I decided to start actual lessons again with Sage Music. I highly recommend to piano players at all levels of experience! Sage is the needed tool to help me meet my current piano playing goals. April 13, 2021 5 out of 5 stars I pick up the violin and I play and feel as if I have been doing it for years I started with Sage in December close to the end of the year and my experience has simply been amazing . As a foreign student without a music background and who barely touched a violin before December, my experience has been mesmerizing. We are now in April and I know the basics of the violin, I can read basic music sheets, I do not need tapes for my fingers. I pick up the violin and I play and I feel as if I have been doing it for years. My teacher Jeremy is the best. He is so youthful and energetic and very encouraging. He applauds my efforts and he never makes me feel down even when I am hard on myself. He is very professional and very frank in my view but he says the right things to get you back right where you should be. I owe my progress wholly to him. My whole experience from the beginning with getting me set up was so effortless . Every week I am so focused on getting ready for class. It is never a drag it is always effortless. I really appreciate the progress I made thus far and I look forward to a greater future with Sage and Jeremy as my teacher/ guide. His Jeremy tips as I call it are very useful and always on point. Thank you Sage, Jeremy, and the team for making one of my dreams come through in a very short space of time. Did I mention this was all done online! Hats off to Sage Music School. Dec. 17, 2020 5 out of 5 stars Patient, pertinent explanations and hands on illustrations - I am advancing While my relationship with Sage is not long lived so far, I have found all the staff to be supportive and talented in their own right. My teacher, Michael Conklin, has been great. I had specific goals in mind and he is a skilled enough teacher to not only understand my intentions in seeking instruction, but to be able to provide patient, pertinent explanations and hands on illustrations in both theoretical and in the mechanics of playing the sax. I am advancing and I thank Michael for helping me to do so. Oct. 18, 2020 5 out of 5 stars Sage Music has my highest recommendation to anyone thinking of beginning or advancing their music studies Sage Music is a very special place , and they have my highest recommendation to anyone thinking of beginning or advancing their music studies. I started taking piano lessons last year as a total adult beginner with no reference point or prior knowledge, and I’m amazed at how far I’ve come and how much joy the lessons have added to my life . My brilliant and patient instructor, Jacob, has always been interested in how I learn best as an individual, and the Sage approach overall combines proven learning techniques with a warm and highly personalized teaching approach . The entire team is wonderful to work with, professional, and responsive . I’m so glad I began lessons and look forward to continuing with Sage as I develop these skills. Sept. 27, 2020 5 out of 5 stars Really listens to their students I’m really happy that I found Sage Music and my AMAZING music instructor Michael Conklin! I recently decided to take the leap to learn the saxophone after playing the flute for about 20 years, and I was super nervous that my music skills wouldn’t cross over after taking a long break from music. But my music instructor, Michael, has made my return back to music, and on a new instrument so incredible . He has a great way of relating with his students, and helping them feel comfortable along the way, which has been really helpful for me as I’m learning the saxophone. We cover everything from breathing techniques to proper embouchure that will help provide a strong, solid sound on the saxophone. And he even connects things that I’m more familiar with as a flute player back to the saxophone which helps me grasp the saxophone material. And perhaps one of the things I deeply value about my lessons with Michael is the fact that he really listens to his students . He really tries to understand your interest in music, and the type of music that inspires you so that he can develop a lesson plan to help you reach that personal goal. If you’re interested in music lessons, definitely check out Michael… he really is an awesome instructor! June 20, 2020 5 out of 5 stars Exactly how you would design school as a kid if you could The best way to describe this school in my opinion would be “ exactly how you would design school as a kid if you could ”. In other words I heavily admire that they allow me to bring them my goals and they lead me there directly . Not through a maze of confusion and customs but for me I’m being taken straight to what I imagined when I pictured myself as a cellist. The instructor is very intuitive and she also has a very good eye for what can be improved on. I’m sure it sounds like a common trait of a music teacher but her level of skill as a cellist paired with the solid structure of the school leads me to learn excessively quick . And I heard elsewhere that it’s supposed to be hard as an adult beginner. I’m not sure if that’s true or not but I actually look forward to my weekly lessons and I’m sure I always will. Oh and I forgot to mention all of this has been happening through video chat due to covid. The fact that I’ve seen as much progress as I have from my apartment is amazing. Not to mention they gave me two other free classes that help me take it what I’m taught. I couldn’t really say enough. May 23, 2020 5 out of 5 stars a really unique way of teaching - fantastic and customized to my goals I’ve been a guitar student of Matt’s at Sage Music for about a year, and I’m excited about my progress. The teaching methods are fantastic , the lessons are very customized to my goals , and it’s been great to understand the theory behind the music I enjoy and exactly what makes it interesting. I came into the lessons simply wanting to rekindle and old hobby, but I’m very thrilled with my newfound ability to play with stronger technique, more intention, and to be able to improvise along with other musicians in the group classes. The lessons and teaching methods at Sage are very structured and meant to create progress, and to help students get more substance and more enjoyment out of individual practice sessions outside of the lesson. It’s a really unique way of teaching. I’d highly recommend taking a class! — Google Reviews April 15, 2020 5 out of 5 stars No difficulties online, it went as great as if it was in person I want to take a minute and give my personal experience at Sage Music. As student its important to get the best training possible to be able to get all tools needed in order to achive each goal. I’m in singing class and I want to thank Elisabeth Shoup for being such a GREAT teacher. Her level of professionalism goes above and beyond . As many of you know the world’s going to a crisis right now with this Pandemic that forced all schools and many other businesses to close. Sage Music continued with its online class and I enjoyed it a lot. I didn’t have any difficulties online and it went as great as if it was in person. Thank you. Feb. 23, 2020 5 out of 5 stars We couldn’t be happier with our daughter’s progress My daughter started playing the flute in her elementary school band and asked for private lessons. She started taking flute lessons with Michael about a year ago and has loved every lesson . Michael has nurtured her curiosity about music and has invited her to choose music that she loves – Broadway showtunes! She is even now sharing her skills with her band teacher at school that she learned with Michael. Sage Music is super professional, organized and we couldn’t be happier with our daughter’s progress. I highly recommend! — Google Reviews Feb. 3, 2020 5 out of 5 stars Highly recommend Sage Music, my playing skills are consistently improving Started taking piano lessons in 2019. Sage is very professional organization and extremely responsive . They meet with you before you start the lessons to determine what your music goals are and to help develop a plan for success. I have been very happy working with my teacher Jacob Silver. Jacob has supported my goals by providing valuable insight, guidance and tools. After every session he provides music lesson notes and agreed upon practice routines. When I have a question I can send him an email and I always get a quick response. My playing skills are consistently improving. I highly recommend Sage Music. Jan. 29, 2020 5 out of 5 stars I highly recommend this school for anyone who has the desire to learn to play an instrument I have taken piano lessons for approximately three months with Jacob. During this time, Jacob has taught me with great patience and kindness. He is very understanding of your needs, and I can assure you that he is extremely knowledgeable in piano music. Jacob makes you feel comfortable during your lessons and know that neither him or any other staff members will pass judgment on your abilities. I can only say positive things about the staff. Everyone has been super kind and they will always give you a warm welcome . I highly recommend this school for anyone who has the desire to learn to play an instrument. Thank you for all of your support! Jan. 29, 2020 5 out of 5 stars I highly recommend this school for anyone who has the desire to learn to play an instrument I have taken piano lessons for approximately three months with Jacob. During this time, Jacob has taught me with great patience and kindness. He is very understanding of your needs, and I can assure you that he is extremely knowledgeable in piano music. Jacob makes you feel comfortable during your lessons and know that neither him or any other staff members will pass judgment on your abilities. I can only say positive things about the staff. Everyone has been super kind and they will always give you a warm welcome . I highly recommend this school for anyone who has the desire to learn to play an instrument. Thank you for all of your support! Jan. 12, 2020 5 out of 5 stars They create a plan that works for you and use the best methods to keep you on track I have really enjoyed my experience at Sage Music and look forward to continuing learning the clarinet there! Veronica in the office has been great, accessible, and makes it very easy to schedule lessons and create a plan that works for you . Michael has been a really awesome teacher! He is very talented and really takes the time to figure out the best methods to keep you on track and getting to the next level each lesson! All in all, I would highly recommend this studio for a great experience ! Dec. 15, 2019 5 out of 5 stars The right place for real growth in my violin playing After studying violin for two years with another teacher who gave birth to twins and could no longer give private lessons, I had my first violin lesson via Skype with Jeremy Roberts today and it went very well. I felt very comfortable with him and his style of teaching left me feeling encouraged and with the sense that I have come to the right place for real growth in my violin playing . I’m excited and looking forward to my next lesson . Now it’s time to enjoy and get to work on my homework. Perfect practice makes perfect with Sage. Nov. 17, 2019 5 out of 5 stars I’m starting to LOVE playing guitar I ‘taught’ myself guitar in high school over 16 years ago and even though I was able to work up the skills to play some pleasant sounds, I always felt this barrier and level of doubt kept me from truly enjoying the act of playing and expressing myself. Basic music theory made sense on a superficial level, but true understanding and the ability to apply it in my playing often felt out very of reach. I am now closing in on my first full year of weekly guitar lessons with Matt Kaplan and while it is remains clear I have a lot left to learn, it is significantly less daunting and discouraging. Things have finally started falling into place and the “language of music” comes more naturally the more I practice and “eat my (arpeggio) veggies.” With increasing frequency I find myself picking up my guitar, getting lost in my playing, and realizing 30, 45, 60+ minutes have passed by. I am actually starting to LOVE playing guitar instead of feeling defeated by what I can’t do or don’t know. Nov. 2, 2019 5 out of 5 stars I’m happy with the customized lessons Sage Music puts efforts to know my goal and makes sure I am happy with the customized lessons . I enjoy every voice lesson with Christina. Time always flew by so quickly while we were focusing on the voice and the songs. I felt great and refreshed after each class. I am really grateful that Christina Christofi is my instructor, who is very nice and has a warm personality. — Yelp Reviews Sept. 7, 2019 5 out of 5 stars the wisest choice I have made for learning guitar For learning classical guitar, this was one of the wisest choices I have made . Matt Kaplan is a fantastic teacher at Sage Music and he is to be recommend to anyone of any age. I started at 44 and have gotten very good at playing in almost 3 years. You can indeed teach an old dog new tricks. The staff is very friendly and make you feel like you are part of the family . Sept. 4, 2019 5 out of 5 stars Great music school. Great music school. My seven year old daughter started taking piano lessons with Jacob and she love it. Progressive teaching method, goal oriented, affordable and flexible scheduling. I’m very happy I came across Sage. July 18, 2019 5 out of 5 stars If there was a higher than 5 stars rating I could give, I would! Elisabeth is an amazing voice teacher! She has helped me improve my voice both in terms of volume and of how clear it comes out within 3 lessons, not even kidding! She is great at helping you visualize how your voice should come out and be positioned correctly. By all means, if there was a higher than 5 stars rating I could give to Elisabeth and to Sage, I would! July 18, 2019 5 out of 5 stars If there was a higher than 5 stars rating I could give, I would! Elisabeth is an amazing voice teacher! She has helped me improve my voice both in terms of volume and of how clear it comes out within 3 lessons, not even kidding! She is great at helping you visualize how your voice should come out and be positioned correctly. By all means, if there was a higher than 5 stars rating I could give to Elisabeth and to Sage, I would! June 20, 2019 5 out of 5 stars An experience I can only recommend wholeheartedly Sage music teachers are highly qualified , kind, and unbelievably helpful . Not only does Matt, my classical guitar teacher, offer extremely helpful feedback during lessons, he also listens to audio clips I make during the week and answers questions between lessons. His generosity and commitment to his students is unwavering. Not only is there the opportunity to participate in recitals, but also in open mic nights, where the ambiance is relaxed and less intimidating. Veronica, who manages the business side, is professional and friendly, and makes time before your lesson starts feel like free time with friends. Not to mention the occasional appearance of Jason’s dog, Bijou, who can’t help but make you feel at home! The combination of elite level instruction and warmth is really unique, and is an experience I can only recommend wholeheartedly. Feb. 27, 2019 5 out of 5 stars My daughter Mia has attended other music schools but none as professional as Sage! I love Sage ! My daughter Mia has attended other music schools but none as professional as Sage! The instructors are wonderful and inspire the students to learn and practice . Mia takes vocal and Ukelele classes and absolutely loves it! She has been a student at Sage for almost 3 years and will continue to take classes and participate in their wonderful recitals! Feb. 13, 2019 5 out of 5 stars more confidence and ability to perform In the amount of time that I have been a voice student at Sage Music, I have noticed a significant amount of growth within the past 6 months. My teacher Olivia Smith is an incredible voice instructor & I can now say I have more confidence and ability to perform in front of a live audience. I recommend to anyone wanting to learn and master an instrument/voice. Sage Music is the place to be! Feb. 10, 2019 5 out of 5 stars so much progress I really appreciate the step by step approach at sage music. I also especially like the way the focus is on your personal goals . I’ve been at sage music for just about three months and already see so much progress and feel more focused. Thank you Michael Conklin for teaching me, guiding me, and caring for my success. Feb. 10, 2019 5 out of 5 stars I made dramatic progress in just 5 months and I am doing excellent amongst my very experienced saxophone classmates I am so happy I found Sage Music . I am taking private Saxophone lessons at their Greenpoint and LIC locations with Michael Conklin. I am band student in the high level program at IS318. I had switched from percussion to Saxophone this past Fall. With Michael’s help I was able to make dramatic progress in just 5 months and I am doing excellent amongst my very experienced saxophone classmates. Michael is fun, patient and serious at the same time. Sage is a very professional Music School . I highly recommend it! Feb. 10, 2019 5 out of 5 stars x I made dramatic progress in just 5 months and I am doing excellent amongst my very experienced saxophone classmates I am so happy I found Sage Music . I am taking private Saxophone lessons at their Greenpoint and LIC locations with Michael Conklin. I am band student in the high level program at IS318. I had switched from percussion to Saxophone this past Fall. With Michael’s help I was able to make dramatic progress in just 5 months and I am doing excellent amongst my very experienced saxophone classmates. Michael is fun, patient and serious at the same time. Sage is a very professional Music School . I highly recommend it! — Google Reviews Jan. 27, 2019 5 out of 5 stars No matter how stuck and discouraged you may be, Sage Music will be there for you and will help you and they will succeed Can hardly believe it’s already been 1 year since I started taking guitar lessons in Sage Music, and I can say all the progress, support and benefits that the Sage Music and the awesome faculty has provided me with can be scarcely overstated. With a goal to become an approachable art teacher to my own group of students, break a stereotypical view that I have towards myself (not-born-for-music) due to all the trouble I’ve gone through with all the musical instruments I tried in the past and develop a life-long hobby/profession, I discovered Sage Music to help me with my great mission. As a fresh new beginner with zero guitar experience who was in need of a professional’s guidance, every lesson and session I took since day 1, I’ve witnessed and experienced my instructor’s(Matt Kaplan) professionalism, passion and willingness to do the best for his students in every way possible. No matter how stuck and discouraged you maybe, Sage Music will be there for you and will help you and they will succeed . When you are packed with overwhelming passion to learn and/or get musical therapy to soothe, spice up yourself and your life style and step up to a new level but not sure where to seek the right people, Sage Music is the one for you. Jan. 20, 2019 5 out of 5 stars My playing has drastically improved I’ve been taking clarinet lessons at Sage Music for almost three years. My playing has drastically improved over this time and as a result I’ve been successful in auditioning for NYC All City High School Concert Band and Summer Arts Institute run by NYC Department of Education. The woodwind teacher, Michael Conklin, has been a great partner in this process. The staff and teachers have always been very welcoming and supportive . Congratulations to Sage on their expansion into a much bigger space. Dec. 18, 2018 5 out of 5 stars I was behind the kit, holding down a beat. It was amazing! I studied drums at Sage Music with Brian Reynolds earlier this year. The very first day, Brian asked, “What are your goals?” — by the end of the first practice I was behind the kit, holding down a beat . It was amazing ! He picked up a guitar, and we were jamming AC/DC “Back in Black” Just like that! Brian is an excellent teacher. He’s a good listener, he didn’t try to persuade me, he taught me exactly what I was hoping to learn which I really appreciate. He’s an excellent communicator, patient, and superb musician. Lessons were fun, we shared music, and inspired one another. I would definitely recommend Brian if you’re interested in learning to play the drums! Dec. 6, 2018 5 out of 5 stars Highly recommend! They will go the extra mile to see their students succeed I am so impressed with Sage Music – this school has it down! I feel like I have a family there, taking such good care of me…they create an unusual container that I’ve never experienced in any type of school before. The support and encouragement is so genuine , they really, really care for their students and will go the extra mile to see them succeed and make progress. My guitar teacher, Matt, invited me to participate in the next open mic and kindly offered to accompany me for my song. Highly recommend! Nov. 12, 2018 5 out of 5 stars a great opportunity to express myself I am in singing class and it is a great opportunity to express myself . I love doing studio classes and I really hope we do them with duets! Oct. 30, 2018 5 out of 5 stars The focus is on me - based on my personal interests using proven learning methods It’s a really good play to start with a new instrument! The teacher there is very professional and supportive, and he taught me based on both my personal interest (music styles, focus of what I’d like to practice, skill, emotion expression, etc) as well as standard learning procedure (cannot learn too much within too short period). Also, I believe that the school has good documentation of each student’s progress to manage every student’s learning, and my teacher always encouraged a lot in every class. One more thing, they have instrument for rent, which is good for someone who’s not sure if they wanna spent a thousand dollars on a big instrument such as a cello. Oct. 29, 2018 5 out of 5 stars blown away by the quality of my lessons, the pedagogy and the warm, friendly faculty! Looking for a place to get lessons and get the added benefit of being part of a musical community? Then Sage is the best! I needed cello lessons and check out this local music school and have been blown away by the quality of my lessons, the pedagogy and the warm, friendly faculty! They have done everything to make this beginner feel like a musician and my playing has never been better! Highly recommended! Sept. 17, 2018 5 out of 5 stars Helped me achieve exactly what I was trying to achieve I took violin classes at Sage. I am a beginner and was looking to get some good introduction / basics right from the start that would help me in the long run. The instructors at Sage were brilliant and helped me achieve exactly what i was looking for . Nick and Angela were amazing. They went above and beyond to make sure that I was comfortable and paced the lessons at the speed I needed. I recommend Sage to everyone, beginners or for people looking to improve their skills. Thank you Nick and Angela! — Yelp Reviews Aug. 15, 2018 5 out of 5 stars Individualized feedback and instruction I am taking violin lessons here after putting the instrument down 30 years ago. Having worked with two instructors (Angela and Nick) I found both were equally responsive to my learning style, and have provided individualized feedback / instruction which happens to generate great momentum for practice in between lessons. Very pragmatic manner of instruction, gives me a sense of mastery over technique which really propels my desire to study and practice . Bonus with new studio space: regular presence of a very friendly dog. Highly recommend. Aug. 6, 2018 5 out of 5 stars My instructor has really elevated me as an actor and performer I had always wanted to learn to sing on a highly skilled level but was terrified of performing songs in front of a crowd and had no confidence in my vocal abilities. After working with [my teacher] she has really elevated me as an actor and performer and is so accommodating with my hectic schedule. The director Veronica is also awesome and friendly and does a great job at creating a warm and supportive environment for growing artists. An extra bonus is that it’s very affordable. — Google Reviews Aug. 4, 2018 5 out of 5 stars We really can’t say enough good things about Sage- not only are they affordable, but they go the extra mile to accommodate our hectic schedule We really can’t say enough good things about Sage. Not only are they affordable, but they go the extra mile to accommodate our ever-changing and hectic schedule. I also want to give a special shout to Julian, our instructor. He is so patient and so kind with our 4-year-old. No matter how fidgety he gets, Julian is able to steer him back on track. And he has really tailored the lessons to our son’s interests . He’s an outstanding music teacher! We tried a few other piano schools before this one but felt immediately comfortable at Sage. Even if you’re not in LIC, it’s worth the train ride! Aug. 2, 2018 5 out of 5 stars Great local concerts, a overall great experience. Great local concerts, an overall great experience. July 2, 2018 5 out of 5 stars They really meet you where you’re at Such an incredible experience. Would highly recommend Sage Music to anyone – whether you are picking up an instrument for the first time, or just looking to improve your practice in a specific area, Sage Music really meets you where you’re at . Matt is an INCREDIBLE guitar teacher and only have amazing things to say! July 2, 2018 5 out of 5 stars friendly and inviting I’ve taken violin lessons here for a month now. In that time I’ve learned a lot and truly have started to play music and not just rhythmically scrape at my violin. My boyfriend and dog are overjoyed and continue to encourage me to attend lessons here. Angela has the patience of a saint and the weird lady who works the desk is pretty cool too. All in all I highly recommend Sage Music as an adult beginner . People are nice, the pricing is extremely fair for how much you learn, and the environment is friendly and inviting . June 25, 2018 5 out of 5 stars I would recommend to any aspiring musician to give these lessons a try - it’s worth every single penny. The teacher that I was assigned was amazing at teaching me what I believe are the best ways to play the guitar . They’ve been teaching me technique and a bit of reading music to further expand this new hobby that I fell in love with and made it grew immensely. Honestly I would recommend to any aspiring musician to give these lessons a try. Worth every single penny. June 15, 2018 5 out of 5 stars Helped create a new piano player the Autism community My son has attended sage for three years and has been able to overcome his cognitive deficits and learn the piano with the supportive staff of Sage Music. Thank you to the hard work of the director, manager, and staff. They have helped create a new piano player the Autism community. June 5, 2018 5 out of 5 stars The only music lessons I’ve ever stuck with. Five stars! I have had a fantastic experience with Sage Music. The organization is efficient, professional, personable and convenient, with many thanks to Veronica. The recitals give the studio a great community vibe. My piano teacher Nicole is fantastic and has me feeling like a super piano virtuoso even as a beginner. Her lessons mix theory and practical skills and are always challenging, entertaining and keep me on track. The only music lessons I’ve ever stuck with. Five stars! May 27, 2018 5 out of 5 stars THE MOST CHARMING PLACE THE MOST CHARMING PLACE — Google Reviews May 23, 2018 5 out of 5 stars Amazing teachers - they are patient and knowledgeable Amazing teachers! They are patient and knowledgeable. Highly recommended!👍 May 16, 2018 5 out of 5 stars OUTSTANDING OUTSTANDING April 16, 2018 1 out of 5 stars Dissatisfied with policies (Owner Response) I wanted to take a trial lesson to see whether my kid would be interested in taking lessons here. According to the website, they recommend calling them before buying an instrument so they can guide you or rent one from them. When we called, they recommended reserving a trial lesson spot and they did not have the instrument my child wanted to play and the only option was a “rent to buy” option which was almost twice what I wanted to pay so the next morning I decided to cancel the trial lesson until I can find a cheaper instrument. That’s when I was told that they would not refund my deposit because it was against their policy. What policy!? I never signed an agreement or was told about this “policy”! It was a verbal agreement and less than 12 hrs old! I called again the day after that and they said thehey would look into not charging me but they still charged my credit card! I would NEVER go to this place because of their shoddy business practices and they have just lost a customer because they are greedy scammers that make up their own rules without even informing potential customers. They are so quick to call you back and try to get you to agree to taking a trial lesson but then when there is a problem they are remarkably unavailable. I do NOT recommend this place because they do not have any integrity! I was never contacted by phone and only through email in response to this review. My husband was never told the policy until we asked for our deposit. In addition I called to cancel LESS than 24 hrs later and was told no way. I understand if this was a day before the lesson but this was OVER a week in advance before the trial lesson. Even doctors allow for cancellations with that amount of time! Children get sick, lose interest, etc. This kind of over the top policy seems ridiculous. Owners Response: Hi Anna, We are always available for our students, including you. Over the last weeks, we’ve made several attempts to reach you to reach you by phone, email, and direct message here on yelp. We do everything above board at Sage Music and don’t hide the policies from anyone. They are publicly posted at sagemusic.co/policies and are linked on your invoice. Our registration software doesn’t allow our staff to take payment until the policies have been read. When your husband registered your son, he was read the policies and also verbally agreed to them. Perhaps there is some misunderstanding because your husband did the registration? We do not have a rent to buy option, and we do not take deposits. All lessons are paid in advance at the time of purchase. Once we book a lesson, we are obligated to pay our teachers for the scheduled time. This is why the no lesson refunds policy exists. We have great teachers at our school, and we can only keep these great teachers around by protecting their time. If we didn’t do so, then we wouldn’t have such a great school full of top notch teachers and such otherwise awesome reviews! We made every effort to reschedule the lesson for you at a more convenient time. We also offered to help you find a less costly instrument for your son elsewhere. I’m not sure what else we could have done for you. If there is something we missed, please do let me know. Also, I have gone through our records, and see that you did contact us from the form on our website FAQ page which lists our policies sagemusic.co/faqs If you would get back to us, we’d be happy to personally address your concerns as best we can. Looking forward to speaking with you. March 21, 2018 5 out of 5 stars I learned so much in my first lesson! My first lesson was great! I am 34 and decided I wanted to learn how to play the guitar. I have zero background in music other than what I listen to on Spotify. Matt, my teacher, immediately started to show me correct form, from how to hold the pick and where my thumb should be on the pick to where my hand should be after a strum. I learned so much in my first lesson! — Yelp Reviews Feb. 5, 2018 5 out of 5 stars They do a great job at really working with your strengths and helping you with weaknesses When I first started considering singing lessons, I was genuinely scared. I’m not musically trained and I don’t read music. But I was so happily surprised when I joined Sage. They do a great job at gauging where you are when it comes to music and really working with your strengths and helping you with weaknesses. I had both Olivia and DJ and I always looked forward to my lessons. Olivia even started showing me how to read music! I can’t wait to re-enroll with Sage because they do a great job at setting up an environment you can learn in and they really take into consideration what your goals are! Oct. 17, 2017 4 out of 5 stars I’ve lost any possible excuse I could have had to not practice It was a great workshop. I’d heard some of the advice before from Jason but this was more thorough than what you have time to discuss during a lesson. Some adjustments are easy to make so it doesn’t take a huge effort (be aware of how focused you are, stop practicing when you’re losing your concentration, frequency is effective, even if you only practice for a 3 minutes at a time…). My one complaint is that I’ve lost any possible excuse I could have had to not practice. — Sage Reviews Oct. 11, 2017 5 out of 5 stars Taught me some great techniques Great workshop! Taught me some great techniques and the science behind why they actually work . Allowed me to objectively look at my practice sessions and figure out where and how I can improve them and advance faster. Jason’s a great teacher and makes everything fun and easy to understand. — Sage Reviews Oct. 10, 2017 5 out of 5 stars game-changing practice techniques into easy, understandable terms This class was so helpful in redefining and reshaping my practice routines. Jason put game-changing practice techniques into easy, understandable terms that made my practice habits more efficient and thorough. I know how to get the most out of my practice time, a skill that feels invaluable ! — Sage Reviews March 14, 2017 5 out of 5 stars Helping musicians of all ages and skill levels become better and more productive I’ve had the pleasure of working with Jason on a piano project a little while ago, and he was great start to finish. I’ve attended a concert at the school and met some of the teachers, and everything I have seen about Sage is highly professional , with the truly admirable goal of helping musicians of all ages and skill levels become better and more productive . Give Jason a call, you won’t regret it! Highly recommended! Aug. 11, 2016 5 out of 5 stars It’s been a great 2 years at Sage Music Aleks is a great teacher and Jason has been very hospitable, it’s been a great 2 years at Sage Music. May 11, 2016 5 out of 5 stars Fantastic teacher, highly recommended Have taken guitar lessons for over a year here with Jason – fantastic teacher, highly recommended . May 11, 2016 5 out of 5 stars amazed at how fast my wife and I have both come along I am studying the violin and my wife is studying the clarinet. Our individual instructors are professional and enjoyable. I am amazed at how fast we have both come along. This is a school I highly recommend. May 11, 2016 5 out of 5 stars The best choice I made for my daughters Sage Music School is the best choice I made for my daughters. I have three daughters playing three different instruments. They did an outstanding job in scheduling their music classes all at the same time. They also are very flexible with our classes. My girls enjoy practicing and always look forward to meeting with their wonderful teachers. The teachers are fantastic, patient and professional! Feb. 12, 2016 5 out of 5 stars Me and my daughter loved the consultation, very helpful with all my questions Me and my daughter loved the consultation with Jason and Jasmine was very helpful with all my questions. I hope to see you soon. Dec. 3, 2015 5 out of 5 stars My teacher has been very knowledgeable, flexible, and gentle during this first chapter of my new hobby I just started violin about 11 months ago. My instructor, Evan, learned about my objectives and he learned which genres interested me. He went out of his way to prepare for lessons, including hand writing supplemental exercises as well as incorporating basic music and jazz theory into the lesson. He also shared information about performances in the community. He has been very knowledgeable, flexible, and gentle during this first chapter of my new hobby, and I have appreciated his time. — Google Reviews Oct. 11, 2015 5 out of 5 stars I would recommend taking voice lessons at Sage any day I have been working with Stefanie Izzo, Sage’s vocal teacher for the past few months. I usually don’t do Yelp reviews, but I feel compelled to do so simply because I have loved the experience thus far and feel that this is a review past overdue. Stefanie is beyond brilliant and an excellent teacher. You don’t just spend your time singing through a song and then head out the door. Rather, Stefanie goes through the mechanics/physics/science behind singing and explains specifically why a certain technique does/doesn’t work and or why you are having difficulty singing a certain note etc., and then shows you various ways of working on whatever it is that you need to work on. She’s constructive in her feedback and I can honestly say, as someone who had never worked up the nerve to take lessons and sing in front of others until this year, that I have never felt uncomfortable/judged when practicing with Stefanie. I’m always impressed. I would recommend taking voice lessons at Sage any day – whether it’s just for fun or because you are super serious about singing. March 24, 2015 5 out of 5 stars I’m enjoying both playing and practicing more than ever I’ve been taking guitar lessons with Taro for over a year, and I can’t recommend them (and him!) enough. I’m continuing to steadily improve, and I’m enjoying both playing and practicing more than ever. Feb. 28, 2015 5 out of 5 stars I find myself practicing daily and seeing marked improvement for the first time in years! Let me give you some background on me first. I’ve been “playing” guitar for 23 years and have gone through 4 teachers though I’m mainly self taught. Every teacher took a very dry and ground up approach to teaching and left me frustrated and ultimately bored a few weeks in. Jason from Sage Music, takes a creative and bespoke approach to teaching. His methods eschew the traditional classroom ones and instead make the lessons and homework dynamic and varied which keeps me engaged and excited for the next lesson. I find myself practicing daily and seeing marked improvement for the first time in years! Pricing is very reasonable and he is very flexible with rescheduling around my busy calendar. The location is conveniently located next to Court Square (E,M,7) upstairs from a cafe. Can’t say enough nice things about Jason and Sage Music. — Yelp Reviews June 23, 2014 5 out of 5 stars This school is fantastic I’ve always wanted to formally learn a musical instrument (specifically, the piano) but did not have the opportunity to do so until recently. I had concerns whether I would be able to accomplish this as an adult (or whether I would find a school that was well-experienced in teaching adults, as opposed to kids). Those concerns have been completely done away with in the six months I have taken classes at Sage Music. This school is fantastic . The studio is located 5 minutes from the Court Square stop so its very convenient to multiple subway lines (they also have a studio in Brooklyn). In addition, the hours are pretty flexible and the tuition very reasonable. Jason Sagebiel (the owner), has a unique life story and runs a very tight ship, but is unfailingly courteous and professional . It’s obvious he really believes in his school and wants everyone — including his teachers — to succeed and have a good time. I can’t say enough positive things about my teacher, Aleksandra (Alex). She has an approachable and patient personality, and tailors her instruction style to her students’ particular skill set, personality style, and goals. She also challenges students – in a respectful way – to reach their potential , and that has been very satisfying. In addition, she takes a genuine interest in her students’ lives and that personal approach is refreshing. It has been a real pleasure working with her — in a word – she’s marvelous. If you are looking for musical instruction in a fun, personal, and collaborative environment , consider Sage Music. Check them out! — Yelp Reviews June 2, 2014 5 out of 5 stars I highly recommend them for music therapy I love Sage Music . My daughter needed music therapy to help with her mouth muscles and Sage Music did all the research needed to help her. They were courteous, affordable, respectful and always available to speak to. I highly recommend them! May 23, 2014 5 out of 5 stars I couldn’t be happier I take guitar at Sage Music with Jason Sagebiel and I couldn’t be happier with the quality of the lessons. The teachers here, Jason especially, are knowledgeable, experienced, and patient . Most importantly they are able to tailor the lessons to a student’s specific goals and needs , which is not necessarily the norm in music education. I highly recommend Sage Music to students of all ages, levels, and goals. — Yelp Reviews July 12, 2013 5 out of 5 stars Helped me learn proper technique to achieve my goals I really loved my lessons at Sage Music! I had purchased a deal through Amazon Local and I wish I had done it earlier! I was studying Guitar with Jason and he really took the time to understand what I wanted to get out of the lessons and helped me learn proper technique to achieve my goals. I would highly recommend their studio in Long Island City! — Yelp Reviews July 4, 2013 5 out of 5 stars A teacher of the highest caliber Jason is a teacher of the highest caliber . With great patience and ability to convey his vast pedagogical knowledge, I am making progress in correcting years of bad guitar habits. Jason is an impressive guitar teacher from whom I am not only learning correct skills and techniques, but good practice habits, concentration, musical composition, theory and physiology. He is a calm, passionate and dedicated individual. — Thumbtack Reviews July 2, 2013 5 out of 5 stars I couldn’t imagine a better place to learn music I was somewhat worried about starting piano lessons at 36 years old, but thankfully I found Sage Music. I couldn’t imagine a better place to learn music than with Jason and his team. They take the time to make sure you understand the mechanics (mental and physical) in playing an instrument, and the pace of learning is set by the individual. Highly recommend Sage Music. — Thumbtack Reviews July 2, 2013 5 out of 5 stars My experience with Sage Music has been amazing My experience with Sage Music has been amazing . Jason and his team provides service that is above and beyond. They are willing to adapt and listen to your needs . They are passionate with what they do and it truly shows. My five year old daughter took piano lessons for over 6 months. I have to give all the credit to Sage Music for building the confidence in her as she now plays independently without much help. I’m impressed with the technique taught by Sage despite the little fingers she has….the key strokes are very precise. Thank you. — Thumbtack Reviews July 1, 2013 5 out of 5 stars Fabulous music school, it’s been a joy Fabulous music school: Jason infuses a spirit of calm enthusiasm and respect which really encourages rapid learning (both for adults and for children) . It’s been a joy… — Thumbtack Reviews July 1, 2013 5 out of 5 stars A wonderful experience My son has been taking guitar lessons from Jason for nearly three years and according to him, it has been a wonderful experience . Jason is a very experienced and knowledgeable teacher who helps my son develop his music sense and correct way of practice . His critique and insight help my son grow as a guitar player. I would highly recommend Jason. — Thumbtack Reviews July 1, 2013 5 out of 5 stars An excellent guitar instructor - I highly recommend him. Jason Sagebiel is an excellent guitar instructor. Jason is teaching how to play an accoustic electric guitar. I‘ve been going to him for about 2 years and have learned both practical and theory. I highly recommend Jason as a guitar instructor. — Thumbtack Reviews July 1, 2013 5 out of 5 stars Outstanding results My son has been Jason’s student for more than six years. The results are outstanding . — Thumbtack Reviews June 30, 2013 5 out of 5 stars Progress is felt right away Jason knows the psychology and philosophy of learning applicable to a matured learner. He put his thought into making teaching guitar and drumming meaningful and cost-effective. Progress is felt right away with practice . He explained the mechanics and art of playing music. He made musicians out of his students. He is a teacher of teachers in music. — Thumbtack Reviews May 24, 2013 5 out of 5 stars If you are serious about improving, I highly recommend taking lessons I spent two years learning guitar on my own, and in two months of taking lessons at Sage music, I have improved enormously. These guys are technicians. They are helping me to form good habits that will enable me to play efficiently and effortlessly. Sage even helped me make modifications to my guitar. If you are serious about improving as a player, I highly recommend taking lessons here. — Thumbtack Reviews April 21, 2013 5 out of 5 stars Sage Music has given my a playing a new lease on life Though I’m an experienced guitarist in many styles of music, like many others I’ve long felt I lacked the basic technique and focusing skills necessary to be fully in control of my playing and musical satisfaction in general. Jason’s refreshing back-to-basics, direct and supportive approach to technique has given my a playing a new lease on life. It’s been well worth the trek from Park Slope to LIC and back each Saturday! — Thumbtack Reviews Nov. 12, 2012 5 out of 5 stars takes the time to learn and understand their student I simply love the instructor. He is friendly, honest, easy going and communicates well to my concerns as a parent . Most of all he is extremely patient. The new space is open, bright, clean and welcoming. The Study Guides that are sent show the amount of care and thought that goes into helping the students reach their full potential. Life is full of changes and and lessons can be rescheduled. There is also a personal relationship formed between instructor and student, which is essential in the student’s ability to learn an instrument. The instructor takes the time to learn and understand their student. — Sage Reviews Nov. 11, 2012 5 out of 5 stars What I really like is how they teach the lessons and how they motivate The first thing that I like is the teachers are very friendly, they have this good sense of humor to teach each one of us and you cant wait for the next class to come. What I really like is how they teach the lessons and how the teachers motivate you to learn. The other thing is that they teach your lessons individually , meaning it is only you and the teacher – that’s one of the “best things”. The books that the teachers use are clear and you can understand everything. Everyone in the school is very professional . — Sage Reviews Sept. 29, 2012 5 out of 5 stars Put me on the path to becoming a true musician Having worked with 4 different teachers before meeting Jason, I knew from the beginning he was different . I was amazed by his attention to detail and the passion that he was showing for my progress from day one. There might be a lot of guitar teachers out there but Jason put me on the path to becoming a true musician , and there is a huge difference between the two. Jason is more than a teacher to me, I consider him a mentor . Many of the principles that I was taught in class I was able to apply to different aspects of my life. Thanks Jason! — Sage Reviews Feb. 4, 2012 5 out of 5 stars I love the atmosphere at the school I am an adult currently taking piano lessons at Long Island City Music School. My teacher is Mr. Coto. So far my experience has been just great. I am learning so much, because my teacher is a very skilled musician, and is very patient with me. I am truly enjoying my classes, and I love the atmosphere at the school . I look forward to going there every Saturday. I recommend this school for anyone looking to take piano lessons. — Yelp Reviews
