Nutrition on a Budget: Cheap and Easy Ways for Students to Eat Well "Think of food as like fuel for your body and brain,” says Holly Gilligan, MA, RD, CDN, Registered Dietitian, Nutritionist at University of Rochester Medical Center’s Fitness Science. “Eating well can make a huge difference in how you feel and perform academically." Even on a tight budget and limited schedule, eating healthily is manageable by making smart choices and planning ahead. Budget-Friendly Grocery Tips Make a weekly meal plan. Shop with a grocery list to avoid impulse purchases. Buy in bulk when possible, especially for staples like rice, beans, and oats. Keep an eye out for sales and take advantage. Opt for store brands. Easy, Healthy, and Affordable Meal Ideas Simple, affordable meals like rice bowls, pasta dishes, and stir-fries can be nutritious and budget-friendly. Use versatile ingredients like beans, rice, and vegetables that can be incorporated into multiple meals to save time and money. Gilligan highly recommends meal prepping at the start of your week. "Meal planning and stocking your fridge can truly make a difference in your week.” Batch cooking and meal prepping can ensure you have healthy meals ready throughout the week, reducing the temptation to eat out or grab unhealthy snacks. Don’t have access to a full kitchen? Check out these delicious, healthy meals that only need a microwave to prepare! Making Nutrition Work for You Snack smarter, not harder. Healthy snacks can help keep you fueled and focused throughout a busy day. Quick grab-and-go options like yogurt, fruit, or nuts are both affordable and nutritious. To avoid that afternoon energy crash, stay away from ultra-processed snacks. Get creative. Balancing health and budget goals requires flexibility and creativity. Keep an eye out for sales at local stores and utilize campus resources and student discounts to access nutritious foods. Snack smarter, not harder. Healthy snacks can help keep you fueled and focused throughout a busy day. Quick grab-and-go options like yogurt, fruit, or nuts are both affordable and nutritious. To avoid that afternoon energy crash, stay away from ultra-processed snacks.
