Clothing subscription boxes offer a fun and efficient way to upgrade your wardrobe all year long. No matter your style, you're bound to find an affordable clothing subscription box that's perfect for your fashion preferences. In case you need some help along the way, check out our readers' favorite clothing subscription boxes below. Here you'll discover the 16 best clothing subscription boxes in 2025. We've included a mix of monthly boxes, clothing rental services, and more designed for women, men, and children. You'll discover today's most popular brands like Stitch Fix, Rent the Runway, Wantable, and more. Best Overall: Stitch Fix Best for One-Off Looks: Rent the Runway Best for All-Day Wear: Wantable Best for High-End Fashion: Armoire Best for Trendy Brands: Nuuly Best for Limitless Plus-Size Picks: Gwynnie Bee Best for Kids: Kidpik Best Budget-Friendly Picks for Men: Menlo Club Dailylook Best for Flexible Delivery : Best Adore Me for Curated Lingerie : And more! Keep reading to see all of our recommendations. 1. Stitch Fix Best Overall Clothing Subscription Box in 2025 Image from Becca's October 2024 Stitch Fix Review. Fast Facts Cost: $20 styling fee + cost of items you keep Sizes: Women: 0-24 & XS-3X (including petite, plus + maternity), Men: XS-3XL (including big + tall), Kids: 2T-18 Clothing Items Per Box: 5 Subscription Box Details Once again, Stitch Fix made it to the top of our list of the best clothing subscription boxes. Several of our reviewers have tried out Stitch Fix for recurring reviews, so we've got plenty of history with this iconic brand. If you're unfamiliar with this styling service, there are a few things you should know about how it works. Start by completing a style quiz, wait for your assigned stylist to send your curated box, try out everything (5 items) within 3 days, and then keep the items you can't let go of. While you have to pay a $20 styling fee for each box, you can apply it towards the cost of any items you keep. In her Stitch Fix review, Brandi Dowell received a stunning Kaela Faux Wrap Knit Dress by Kaileigh. She shared, "It is so soft and comfortable and I love the wrap style top (where was this when I was still nursing my babies?), but my favorite feature is the fluttery sleeves! It's really subtle, but it gives this cute feminine look to the dress that I love.". Pros and Cons Pros Clothing is very affordable Offers a large range of sizes You'll find something for the whole family Cons Charged styling fee even if you don't keep items 2. Rent the Runway Best for One-Off Looks from Designer Brands Image from Mary's April 2024 review. Fast Facts Cost: Starts at $94 per month Sizes: Women: 0-22 (including maternity) Clothing Items Per Box: 5, 10, or 20 Subscription Box Details When it comes to delivering the perfect looks for high-profile events, weddings, or parties, Rent the Runway 's got your back. RTR is known for offering one-off rentals that'll have you looking like a million bucks in no time. Rent the Runway also offers a standard rental service that lets you try out between 5-20 items per month. Their 10 and 20-item plans grant you full access to RTR's closet which features over 10,000 styles and items that are worth up to $3,000 apiece. In a recent review of Rent the Runway, Mary Zubritsky had this to say about the V-Neck Cami Dress she received "It's elegant, sophisticated and impeccably made. The material is thick, so you don't have to worry about lumps or bumps, and the fabric is surprisingly on the heavier side and really sturdy. Such a great piece by Adam Lippes!". Pros and Cons Pros High-end designer clothing Range of rental plans Great for everyday wear or special occasions Cons Pricier than other brands 3. Wantable Style Edit Best for All-Day Wear Image from Marisa's November 2021 review. Fast Facts Cost: $20 styling fee + cost of items you keep Sizes: Women: 0-24 & XS-3X, Men: S-XXL Clothing Items Per Box: 7 Subscription Box Details You know what we dig? Versatility. And that's exactly what Wantable specializes in. They offer separate plans for activewear, sleepwear, daily wear, and more. You'll pay a $20 styling fee upfront for each box and get to try out 7 items each time (which includes accessories). Despite catering a bit more to female fashion, Wantable's selection of performance and loungewear for men is quite impressive. Marisa Haber has reviewed several different "Edits" by Wantable including their Style Edit and Sleep & Body Edit. Here's what she had to say about each type: Wantable Style Edit: "Overall, my experience with the Wantable Style Edit box is always a treat. It ships quickly and I love how thoughtful Alexandra's styling is based on my requests and quiz...This Edit was all about experimenting with styles I'm not used to, and I'm happy I was pushed out of my comfort zone. This was also the first box I requested a few items and I'm glad I did." Wantable Sleep & Body Edit: "You can truly make this Edit what you want it to be: If you want it to be more functional and realistic for your everyday needs then you can get a box with the softest robe, cozy PJs, and some great undies, or you can focus your box on beautiful lingerie that you wear on special occasions and only for the eyes of your special someone." Pros and Cons Pros Try 7 items per box Large variety of clothing types and styles Enjoy great discounts if you keep most items Cons Charged styling fee even if you don't keep items 4. Armoire Best for Having an Endless, High-End Wardrobe Image from Mary's April 2023 review. Fast Facts Cost: Starts at $89 per month Sizes: Women: 0R-24W (including maternity) Clothing Items Per Box: 4, 6, or 7 items Subscription Box Details Armoire is an upscale clothing rental service that lets you try brands like Joie, Brass, and Yumi Kim. We're a huge fan of their Unlimited Plan that gives you unlimited swaps all month long. You can even adjust your subscription tier to make your plan work better for your budget in case you have a month that's not to hectic. We're totally in love with all the statement pieces that Mary's tried in her Armoire reviews. But can we all take a moment to appreciate just how gorgeous that Yumi Kim metallic floral dress is on her from her April 2023 review? She rocked this look on her Nashville trip by pairing her dress with nude nylons, platform pumps, and a vintage Chanel bag. Pros and Cons Pros High-end, designer clothing You select pieces before they’re shipped Multiple subscription tier options Cons Pricier than other brands 5. Nuuly Best for Trendy Brands Image from the March 2024 review. Fast Facts Cost: $98 + cost of items you keep Sizes: Women: 0-18 & XXS-XXL Clothing Items Per Box: 6 Subscription Box Details If you love brands like Anthropologie and Urban Outfitters, then Nuuly is the place to go. Every month you'll select the 6 items that your wardrobe needs the most. You'll have an entire month to try out everything and decide whether you want to swap your items or buy them. Christen received a chic Alice McCall Mysteria Ruffled Midi Dress that she wore to a wedding back in 2022. She shared the following about her experience: "I was really happy with my wedding guest dress try-on extravaganza with nuuly. In the end I chose a dress that was less of a reach for me than I expected, but I'm pleased with my decision, knowing I'll feel confident in what I'm wearing. I'm also curious to fill up a future nuuly order with trendy clothes I can wear for day-to-day. It'll be a fun way to participate in trends without having to commit to a size I'm not sure will fit me long-term." Pros and Cons Pros Popular brands like Urban Outfitters, Free People, Anthropologie Free shipping + returns Able to choose specific clothes Cons No personal stylist is available 6. Gwynnie Bee Best for Limitless Plus-Size Styles Image from Nicole's Fall 2022 review. Fast Facts Cost: Starts at $49 per month Sizes: Women: 0-32 Clothing Items Per Box: 1-10 Subscription Box Details Gwynnie Bee is a size-inclusive rental service that lets you rent up to 10 items at once. Plus, there are no due dates for returns - I think that's pretty wild. Nicole has taken on plenty of reviews for Gwynnie Bee for us. And while I think it's hard to choose a favorite look on her, I especially love the Mint Green Geo Print Dress by Maggy London she sported back in the August 2022 review. "I love this retro mod geometric print on this dress. No shock to me that this is by Maggy London aka the Donna Morgan company... They all have nice prints, the fabric has loads of stretch, and they have a great vintage-inspired style. This dress is no exception to that rule. This is an ideal dress you could wear to the office and out with friends after." Pros and Cons Pros Size-inclusive Flexible plan Up to 10 items per box Cons Lacks options for maternity, petite, and tall 7. kidpik Best for Coordinated Outfits for Kids Image from Christen's September 2023 review. Fast Facts Cost: Any items you keep (no styling fee!) Sizes: 2T-16 Clothing Items Per Box: 6-8 Subscription Box Details If you're looking to score wicked deals on kids' clothing, Kidpik is your best bet. They offer styling services for toddlers through tweens and focus on delivering coordinated outfits. Our reviewer Christen's daughter beamed when she got to wear her glittery floral top for the first time back in October. "You can see how pleased this little munchkin is to be wearing this soft tee! She kept it on for the rest of the evening, and changed back into it for school the next day. Now that's a testament to how much of a win it was for her." Pros and Cons Pros Options for most kids' ages Discounts when you keep all box items Receive up to 12 items per box Cons No options for babies 8. Menlo Club Best Budget-Friendly Picks for Men Image from Tiffany's January 2020 review. Fast Facts Cost: $60 per box Sizes: Men: S-3XL Clothing Items Per Box: 2-3 Subscription Box Details Menlo Club is our favorite curated box for men's clothing by a mile. Unlike other services, you'll pay $60 upfront which covers the entire box. Tiffany Waldorf's husband, John, received several items from Menlo during her recurring review series of the brand. I think the way he styled the Five Four Will Scarf and Jacket combo in their "Get Comfortable" Review looks incredibly sharp. Tiffany wrote, "The jacket and scarf included in this month's Menlo Club package are perfect for the time of year and John will get a lot of wear out of them.". Pros and Cons Pros No styling fee Much less expensive than other men’s stylist subscriptions Personalized apparel from well-known brands Cons Limited selection of brands 9. Dailylook Best for Flexible Delivery Image from the Dailylook October 2018 review. Fast Facts Cost: $40 fee + cost of items Sizes: Women: XS-3X and 0-24 Clothing Items Per Box: Up to 12 Subscription Box Details Dailylook is a personal styling service that puts you in the driver's seat of your subscription. You're in charge of exactly when you get your items. Choose between monthly, bimonthly, or quarterly deliveries. Skip a month, pause your subscription for a year - it's all up to you! Haley Faye took on a Dailylook recurring review a while back. Here's what she had to say about one of her absolute favorite items: "I own nothing like this top! It's silky, off-the-shoulder, 3/4 sleeve (with tie details), and has a small ruffle around the hem. I think it's gorgeous. I like the print and the fit. Off-the-shoulder tops are definitely out of my comfort zone but not out of my style, so this may have to be the first one I work into my wardrobe.". Pros and Cons Pros Choose between monthly, bimonthly, or quarterly deliveries Get up to 12 hand-selected items Includes a variety of clothing types Cons Styling fee higher than other services 10. Adore Me Adore Me Best for Curated Lingerie Image provided by Adore Me. Fast Facts Cost: $20 styling fee + cost of items you keep Sizes: Women: XS-4XL Clothing Items Per Box: 4-7 Subscription Box Details When it comes to the spicier pieces in your wardrobe, Adore Me shines brightly. They'll let you try all sorts of lingerie, activewear, sleepwear, and even swimwear. Megan Kirkland reviewed Adore Me for an entire year and shared the following about her May 2022 set, "Adore Me went above and beyond with this piece. Seriously, it looks so special and expensive. And I feel great in it! This is the sort of piece I would recommend for anyone, but especially for someone who doesn't think they can rock a bodysuit. You absolutely can! And you should. The styling of this one is going to flatter everything just right. ". Pros and Cons Pros Awesome curated selection by a stylist Only keep what you love Size-inclusive Cons Heavy on lingerie, not so much the basics 11. Fabletics Best for Athleisure Image from August 2022 review. Fast Facts Cost: $59.95 per month + cost of individual items Sizes: Women: 0-24, Men: XS-4XL Clothing Items Per Box: Up to you! Subscription Box Details Can't get enough athleisure? Join Fabletics! When you become a VIP member you'll enjoy major discounts on sportswear essentials including coordinated outfits and individual items. Our reviewer Becca was incredibly impressed with her latest look, "With specific goals in mind, I am really happy with the outfit I picked, and have already worn the bra multiple times. Fabletics never ceases to amaze me with the quality of their products, and the many options they have available.". BTW, make sure to use your membership credit each month. Otherwise, you'll lose it. Pros and Cons Pros Pay for what you buy, or skip the month Offers great range of sizes Choose exactly what you want Cons Your $49.95 membership fee will expire after a year if you don't use it 12. Basic Man Best for Matching Sets of Tees, Underwear, and Socks Image from March 2021 review. Fast Facts Cost: Starts at $19.99 per month Sizes: Women: XS-3XL, Men: XS-4XL Clothing Items Per Box: 3 Subscription Box Details While there are no frills or fillers in this box, we guarantee you'll find ultra-soft bare basics that look and feel amazing with Basic Man. You'll get a matching shirt, a pair of underwear, and socks each month. Our favorite part? Each item has a "destroy by" date - no way is your dignity going down the drain! Brandi's husband tried out Basic Man as a part of her recurring review series of the brand. One of his favorite items was a pair of turquoise boxer briefs of which Brandi commented: "These boxers are always my favorite, and I swear, one day I'm going to steal a pair from him! This fun blue-green color was tempting, too! They are so silky soft and look incredibly comfortable and the mesh details mean that they are breathable. They are made from 95% bamboo viscose and 5% elastane and I like the "recycle when this fades" note that gives you a reason to throw them out even when your husband still claims they're "fine" despite the gaping hole in them.". Pros and Cons Pros Sustainable fabrics and materials are used for products and packaging Receive quality, comfy essentials that everyone needs Each month comes with a cute color scheme Cons Can't handpick items 13. Dia & Co Best for Seasonal Style Boxes Image from December 2023 review. Fast Facts Cost: $20 Styling fee + cost of any item you keep Sizes: Women: 10-32 Clothing Items Per Box: 3, 5, or 7 Subscription Box Details If you're looking for a personal styling service for women that caters to sizes 10+, then you'll want to check out Dia & Co . We're smitten with all of their super-cute patterns and colors, but you'll also find plenty of beautiful basics and understated looks. Choose between their Seasonal Style Box or standard Style Box. You can even opt-in for both! Becca tried out Dia & Co's Winter Box back in December. When asked about her new CeCe Puff Sleeve Knit Top she said, "Perfect for winter, this top can be casual, or dressed up. I was very impressed with the stitching and embroidery, as it was high quality and overall really cute.". Pros and Cons Pros Try out seasonal boxes or regular Great range of sizes 5 items per box Cons There's a $20 styling fee (if you don’t make a purchase) 14. Urbane Box Best for Business Casual Attire Image from December 2018 box. Fast Facts Cost: Starts at $79.99 per month Sizes: Women: 0-16, Men: S-XXL Clothing Items Per Box: 2-3 Subscription Box Details If you're on the hunt for clothes with a business casual vibe, look no further than UrbaneBox. It delivers 2-3 items each month that consist of an outfit and accessories. This clothing subscription box is made for keeps, so you never have to send anything back. Urbane Box lets you build a wardrobe at a slower pace so it's very cost-effective and practical. While we typically recommend this service for young business professionals, it also delivers seasonally themed clothing and everyday wear. Tiffany Waldorf looked stunning in the Colorblock Cardigan she received for her review. When asked about the style and fit she commented, "This cardigan is so warm! The acrylic and polyester yarns are woven together into two layers which makes the material thick and plush (it feels a lot like wool). It also gives the color blocks a variety of textures and color variation. Since the material is thick, the cardigan has a nice structure and holds its shape nicely.". Pros and Cons Pros Option to get more than 1 box/month On-trend curated picks Delivers clothing and accessories Cons Not as size-inclusive as other brands 15. FabKids Know a Parent Who Loves Online Shopping? Image from November 2021 review. Fast Facts Cost: $49.95 per month + cost of items you buy Sizes: 2T-18 Clothing Items Per Box: Up to you! Subscription Box Details Some parents love the element of surprise when it comes to clothing subscription boxes for kids. Others prefer having full autonomy over their shopping experience. If you happen to fall into the second category, then FabKids is the place to go. This membership-based service gives parents access to heavily discounted items that are fun and trendy. Each of Brandi's children have gotten tons of use out of their clothing from FabKids. Among the dozens of boxes they received, I think one of the most adorable looks was from her November 2021 review. Her son was gifted snuggly sneakers, a long sleeve waffle knit shirt, skinny jeans, and a tie dye beanie. "I loved how cozy and wintry this little delivery I put together looked when it arrived! I knew my son would love the boots and seeing it all together I figured it would be a perfect winter outfit for him!". Pros and Cons Pros Only pay the monthly fee when you want to shop Monthly fee goes towards clothing on the site You get rewards points for every purchase that you can use for additional clothes Cons Rewards points expire after 1 year or if you cancel 16. Short Story Best for Petites Image provided by Short Story. Fast Facts Cost: $25 styling fee + cost of items you keep Sizes: Women: 0-20P Clothing Items Per Box: 5 Subscription Box Details Each Short Story box comes with 5-6 different items - think tops, jeans, pants, dresses, and more. Petites never have to worry about receiving clothes that look like they were pulled from the kids' aisle thanks to their wide range of sizes. While we don't have any recent reviews from our writers covering Short Story, several of our readers have tried out Short Story. We found the following reviews most helpful when considering whether or not to try this styling service: "I don't personally enjoy spending hours and hours browsing online only to find that half the stuff doesn't fit me, so this has been a great option. You get 5 days to try things on and decide if you want to purchase them. I've been pleasantly surprised by how well my stylist has gotten to know my style (granted I did give her a lot of detailed notes on what brands I like + how I like my clothes to fit)." - Jennifer "Hate that pants NEVER fit me, finally found the place with Short Story! I've found some great denim that I'm not swimming in and some super cute blazers. My Stylist has been so thoughtful, I love seeing her notes in every box 🙂 Can't wait for my next one!". - Angela Hernandez Pros and Cons Pros Dedicated to petites 5 pieces per box Options for every occasion Cons Charged styling fee even if you don't keep anything Clothing Subscription Box FAQs What is a clothing subscription box? A clothing subscription box delivers several pieces of clothing per month and sometimes includes accessories and shoes. Rather than have to shop in person, subscribers can receive new clothing on demand or rent a set number of pieces for a certain length of time. Clothing subscription services either deliver clothing for you to own outright or allow you to try before you buy. Most brands that offer a rental subscription service will provide major discounts on their clothing if you keep all items in your clothing subscription box. How much are clothing subscription boxes? Most clothing subscription boxes range from $20-$50, but higher-end fashion boxes can cost upwards of $75-$150. Some brands require that you pay a flat fee that covers ownership of all items, whereas others require you to pay an initial styling fee and then cover the remaining cost of any items you keep. Styling fees typically cost $20, but many brands that offer higher-end fashion pieces cost much more. Clothing subscription boxes offer a fun and efficient way to upgrade your wardrobe all year long. No matter your style, you're bound to find an affordable clothing subscription box that's perfect for your fashion preferences. In case you need some help along the way, check out our readers' favorite clothing subscription boxes below. Here you'll discover the 16 best clothing subscription boxes in 2025. We've included a mix of monthly boxes, clothing rental services, and more designed for women, men, and children. You'll discover today's most popular brands like Stitch Fix, Rent the Runway, Wantable, and more. Best Overall: Stitch Fix Best for One-Off Looks: Rent the Runway Best for All-Day Wear: Wantable Best for High-End Fashion: Armoire Best for Trendy Brands: Nuuly Best for Limitless Plus-Size Picks: Gwynnie Bee Best for Kids: Kidpik Best Budget-Friendly Picks for Men: Menlo Club Dailylook Best for Flexible Delivery : Best Adore Me for Curated Lingerie : And more! Keep reading to see all of our recommendations. 1. Stitch Fix Best Overall Clothing Subscription Box in 2025 Image from Becca's October 2024 Stitch Fix Review. Fast Facts Cost: $20 styling fee + cost of items you keep Sizes: Women: 0-24 & XS-3X (including petite, plus + maternity), Men: XS-3XL (including big + tall), Kids: 2T-18 Clothing Items Per Box: 5 Subscription Box Details Once again, Stitch Fix made it to the top of our list of the best clothing subscription boxes. Several of our reviewers have tried out Stitch Fix for recurring reviews, so we've got plenty of history with this iconic brand. If you're unfamiliar with this styling service, there are a few things you should know about how it works. Start by completing a style quiz, wait for your assigned stylist to send your curated box, try out everything (5 items) within 3 days, and then keep the items you can't let go of. While you have to pay a $20 styling fee for each box, you can apply it towards the cost of any items you keep. In her Stitch Fix review, Brandi Dowell received a stunning Kaela Faux Wrap Knit Dress by Kaileigh. She shared, "It is so soft and comfortable and I love the wrap style top (where was this when I was still nursing my babies?), but my favorite feature is the fluttery sleeves! It's really subtle, but it gives this cute feminine look to the dress that I love.". Pros and Cons Pros Clothing is very affordable Offers a large range of sizes You'll find something for the whole family Cons Charged styling fee even if you don't keep items 2. Rent the Runway Best for One-Off Looks from Designer Brands Image from Mary's April 2024 review. Fast Facts Cost: Starts at $94 per month Sizes: Women: 0-22 (including maternity) Clothing Items Per Box: 5, 10, or 20 Subscription Box Details When it comes to delivering the perfect looks for high-profile events, weddings, or parties, Rent the Runway 's got your back. RTR is known for offering one-off rentals that'll have you looking like a million bucks in no time. Rent the Runway also offers a standard rental service that lets you try out between 5-20 items per month. Their 10 and 20-item plans grant you full access to RTR's closet which features over 10,000 styles and items that are worth up to $3,000 apiece. In a recent review of Rent the Runway, Mary Zubritsky had this to say about the V-Neck Cami Dress she received "It's elegant, sophisticated and impeccably made. The material is thick, so you don't have to worry about lumps or bumps, and the fabric is surprisingly on the heavier side and really sturdy. Such a great piece by Adam Lippes!". Pros and Cons Pros High-end designer clothing Range of rental plans Great for everyday wear or special occasions Cons Pricier than other brands 3. Wantable Style Edit Best for All-Day Wear Image from Marisa's November 2021 review. Fast Facts Cost: $20 styling fee + cost of items you keep Sizes: Women: 0-24 & XS-3X, Men: S-XXL Clothing Items Per Box: 7 Subscription Box Details You know what we dig? Versatility. And that's exactly what Wantable specializes in. They offer separate plans for activewear, sleepwear, daily wear, and more. You'll pay a $20 styling fee upfront for each box and get to try out 7 items each time (which includes accessories). Despite catering a bit more to female fashion, Wantable's selection of performance and loungewear for men is quite impressive. Marisa Haber has reviewed several different "Edits" by Wantable including their Style Edit and Sleep & Body Edit. Here's what she had to say about each type: Wantable Style Edit: "Overall, my experience with the Wantable Style Edit box is always a treat. It ships quickly and I love how thoughtful Alexandra's styling is based on my requests and quiz...This Edit was all about experimenting with styles I'm not used to, and I'm happy I was pushed out of my comfort zone. This was also the first box I requested a few items and I'm glad I did." Wantable Sleep & Body Edit: "You can truly make this Edit what you want it to be: If you want it to be more functional and realistic for your everyday needs then you can get a box with the softest robe, cozy PJs, and some great undies, or you can focus your box on beautiful lingerie that you wear on special occasions and only for the eyes of your special someone." Pros and Cons Pros Try 7 items per box Large variety of clothing types and styles Enjoy great discounts if you keep most items Cons Charged styling fee even if you don't keep items 4. Armoire Best for Having an Endless, High-End Wardrobe Image from Mary's April 2023 review. Fast Facts Cost: Starts at $89 per month Sizes: Women: 0R-24W (including maternity) Clothing Items Per Box: 4, 6, or 7 items Subscription Box Details Armoire is an upscale clothing rental service that lets you try brands like Joie, Brass, and Yumi Kim. We're a huge fan of their Unlimited Plan that gives you unlimited swaps all month long. You can even adjust your subscription tier to make your plan work better for your budget in case you have a month that's not to hectic. We're totally in love with all the statement pieces that Mary's tried in her Armoire reviews. But can we all take a moment to appreciate just how gorgeous that Yumi Kim metallic floral dress is on her from her April 2023 review? She rocked this look on her Nashville trip by pairing her dress with nude nylons, platform pumps, and a vintage Chanel bag. Pros and Cons Pros High-end, designer clothing You select pieces before they’re shipped Multiple subscription tier options Cons Pricier than other brands 5. Nuuly Best for Trendy Brands Image from the March 2024 review. Fast Facts Cost: $98 + cost of items you keep Sizes: Women: 0-18 & XXS-XXL Clothing Items Per Box: 6 Subscription Box Details If you love brands like Anthropologie and Urban Outfitters, then Nuuly is the place to go. Every month you'll select the 6 items that your wardrobe needs the most. You'll have an entire month to try out everything and decide whether you want to swap your items or buy them. Christen received a chic Alice McCall Mysteria Ruffled Midi Dress that she wore to a wedding back in 2022. She shared the following about her experience: "I was really happy with my wedding guest dress try-on extravaganza with nuuly. In the end I chose a dress that was less of a reach for me than I expected, but I'm pleased with my decision, knowing I'll feel confident in what I'm wearing. I'm also curious to fill up a future nuuly order with trendy clothes I can wear for day-to-day. It'll be a fun way to participate in trends without having to commit to a size I'm not sure will fit me long-term." Pros and Cons Pros Popular brands like Urban Outfitters, Free People, Anthropologie Free shipping + returns Able to choose specific clothes Cons No personal stylist is available 6. Gwynnie Bee Best for Limitless Plus-Size Styles Image from Nicole's Fall 2022 review. Fast Facts Cost: Starts at $49 per month Sizes: Women: 0-32 Clothing Items Per Box: 1-10 Subscription Box Details Gwynnie Bee is a size-inclusive rental service that lets you rent up to 10 items at once. Plus, there are no due dates for returns - I think that's pretty wild. Nicole has taken on plenty of reviews for Gwynnie Bee for us. And while I think it's hard to choose a favorite look on her, I especially love the Mint Green Geo Print Dress by Maggy London she sported back in the August 2022 review. "I love this retro mod geometric print on this dress. No shock to me that this is by Maggy London aka the Donna Morgan company... They all have nice prints, the fabric has loads of stretch, and they have a great vintage-inspired style. This dress is no exception to that rule. This is an ideal dress you could wear to the office and out with friends after." Pros and Cons Pros Size-inclusive Flexible plan Up to 10 items per box Cons Lacks options for maternity, petite, and tall 7. kidpik Best for Coordinated Outfits for Kids Image from Christen's September 2023 review. Fast Facts Cost: Any items you keep (no styling fee!) Sizes: 2T-16 Clothing Items Per Box: 6-8 Subscription Box Details If you're looking to score wicked deals on kids' clothing, Kidpik is your best bet. They offer styling services for toddlers through tweens and focus on delivering coordinated outfits. Our reviewer Christen's daughter beamed when she got to wear her glittery floral top for the first time back in October. "You can see how pleased this little munchkin is to be wearing this soft tee! She kept it on for the rest of the evening, and changed back into it for school the next day. Now that's a testament to how much of a win it was for her." Pros and Cons Pros Options for most kids' ages Discounts when you keep all box items Receive up to 12 items per box Cons No options for babies 8. Menlo Club Best Budget-Friendly Picks for Men Image from Tiffany's January 2020 review. Fast Facts Cost: $60 per box Sizes: Men: S-3XL Clothing Items Per Box: 2-3 Subscription Box Details Menlo Club is our favorite curated box for men's clothing by a mile. Unlike other services, you'll pay $60 upfront which covers the entire box. Tiffany Waldorf's husband, John, received several items from Menlo during her recurring review series of the brand. I think the way he styled the Five Four Will Scarf and Jacket combo in their "Get Comfortable" Review looks incredibly sharp. Tiffany wrote, "The jacket and scarf included in this month's Menlo Club package are perfect for the time of year and John will get a lot of wear out of them.". Pros and Cons Pros No styling fee Much less expensive than other men’s stylist subscriptions Personalized apparel from well-known brands Cons Limited selection of brands 9. Dailylook Best for Flexible Delivery Image from the Dailylook October 2018 review. Fast Facts Cost: $40 fee + cost of items Sizes: Women: XS-3X and 0-24 Clothing Items Per Box: Up to 12 Subscription Box Details Dailylook is a personal styling service that puts you in the driver's seat of your subscription. You're in charge of exactly when you get your items. Choose between monthly, bimonthly, or quarterly deliveries. Skip a month, pause your subscription for a year - it's all up to you! Haley Faye took on a Dailylook recurring review a while back. Here's what she had to say about one of her absolute favorite items: "I own nothing like this top! It's silky, off-the-shoulder, 3/4 sleeve (with tie details), and has a small ruffle around the hem. I think it's gorgeous. I like the print and the fit. Off-the-shoulder tops are definitely out of my comfort zone but not out of my style, so this may have to be the first one I work into my wardrobe.". Pros and Cons Pros Choose between monthly, bimonthly, or quarterly deliveries Get up to 12 hand-selected items Includes a variety of clothing types Cons Styling fee higher than other services 10. Adore Me Adore Me Best for Curated Lingerie Image provided by Adore Me. Fast Facts Cost: $20 styling fee + cost of items you keep Sizes: Women: XS-4XL Clothing Items Per Box: 4-7 Subscription Box Details When it comes to the spicier pieces in your wardrobe, Adore Me shines brightly. They'll let you try all sorts of lingerie, activewear, sleepwear, and even swimwear. Megan Kirkland reviewed Adore Me for an entire year and shared the following about her May 2022 set, "Adore Me went above and beyond with this piece. Seriously, it looks so special and expensive. And I feel great in it! This is the sort of piece I would recommend for anyone, but especially for someone who doesn't think they can rock a bodysuit. You absolutely can! And you should. The styling of this one is going to flatter everything just right. ". Pros and Cons Pros Awesome curated selection by a stylist Only keep what you love Size-inclusive Cons Heavy on lingerie, not so much the basics 11. Fabletics Best for Athleisure Image from August 2022 review. Fast Facts Cost: $59.95 per month + cost of individual items Sizes: Women: 0-24, Men: XS-4XL Clothing Items Per Box: Up to you! Subscription Box Details Can't get enough athleisure? Join Fabletics! When you become a VIP member you'll enjoy major discounts on sportswear essentials including coordinated outfits and individual items. Our reviewer Becca was incredibly impressed with her latest look, "With specific goals in mind, I am really happy with the outfit I picked, and have already worn the bra multiple times. Fabletics never ceases to amaze me with the quality of their products, and the many options they have available.". BTW, make sure to use your membership credit each month. Otherwise, you'll lose it. Pros and Cons Pros Pay for what you buy, or skip the month Offers great range of sizes Choose exactly what you want Cons Your $49.95 membership fee will expire after a year if you don't use it 12. Basic Man Best for Matching Sets of Tees, Underwear, and Socks Image from March 2021 review. Fast Facts Cost: Starts at $19.99 per month Sizes: Women: XS-3XL, Men: XS-4XL Clothing Items Per Box: 3 Subscription Box Details While there are no frills or fillers in this box, we guarantee you'll find ultra-soft bare basics that look and feel amazing with Basic Man. You'll get a matching shirt, a pair of underwear, and socks each month. Our favorite part? Each item has a "destroy by" date - no way is your dignity going down the drain! Brandi's husband tried out Basic Man as a part of her recurring review series of the brand. One of his favorite items was a pair of turquoise boxer briefs of which Brandi commented: "These boxers are always my favorite, and I swear, one day I'm going to steal a pair from him! This fun blue-green color was tempting, too! They are so silky soft and look incredibly comfortable and the mesh details mean that they are breathable. They are made from 95% bamboo viscose and 5% elastane and I like the "recycle when this fades" note that gives you a reason to throw them out even when your husband still claims they're "fine" despite the gaping hole in them.". Pros and Cons Pros Sustainable fabrics and materials are used for products and packaging Receive quality, comfy essentials that everyone needs Each month comes with a cute color scheme Cons Can't handpick items 13. Dia & Co Best for Seasonal Style Boxes Image from December 2023 review. Fast Facts Cost: $20 Styling fee + cost of any item you keep Sizes: Women: 10-32 Clothing Items Per Box: 3, 5, or 7 Subscription Box Details If you're looking for a personal styling service for women that caters to sizes 10+, then you'll want to check out Dia & Co . We're smitten with all of their super-cute patterns and colors, but you'll also find plenty of beautiful basics and understated looks. Choose between their Seasonal Style Box or standard Style Box. You can even opt-in for both! Becca tried out Dia & Co's Winter Box back in December. When asked about her new CeCe Puff Sleeve Knit Top she said, "Perfect for winter, this top can be casual, or dressed up. I was very impressed with the stitching and embroidery, as it was high quality and overall really cute.". Pros and Cons Pros Try out seasonal boxes or regular Great range of sizes 5 items per box Cons There's a $20 styling fee (if you don’t make a purchase) 14. Urbane Box Best for Business Casual Attire Image from December 2018 box. Fast Facts Cost: Starts at $79.99 per month Sizes: Women: 0-16, Men: S-XXL Clothing Items Per Box: 2-3 Subscription Box Details If you're on the hunt for clothes with a business casual vibe, look no further than UrbaneBox. It delivers 2-3 items each month that consist of an outfit and accessories. This clothing subscription box is made for keeps, so you never have to send anything back. Urbane Box lets you build a wardrobe at a slower pace so it's very cost-effective and practical. While we typically recommend this service for young business professionals, it also delivers seasonally themed clothing and everyday wear. Tiffany Waldorf looked stunning in the Colorblock Cardigan she received for her review. When asked about the style and fit she commented, "This cardigan is so warm! The acrylic and polyester yarns are woven together into two layers which makes the material thick and plush (it feels a lot like wool). It also gives the color blocks a variety of textures and color variation. Since the material is thick, the cardigan has a nice structure and holds its shape nicely.". Pros and Cons Pros Option to get more than 1 box/month On-trend curated picks Delivers clothing and accessories Cons Not as size-inclusive as other brands 15. FabKids Know a Parent Who Loves Online Shopping? Image from November 2021 review. Fast Facts Cost: $49.95 per month + cost of items you buy Sizes: 2T-18 Clothing Items Per Box: Up to you! Subscription Box Details Some parents love the element of surprise when it comes to clothing subscription boxes for kids. Others prefer having full autonomy over their shopping experience. If you happen to fall into the second category, then FabKids is the place to go. This membership-based service gives parents access to heavily discounted items that are fun and trendy. Each of Brandi's children have gotten tons of use out of their clothing from FabKids. Among the dozens of boxes they received, I think one of the most adorable looks was from her November 2021 review. Her son was gifted snuggly sneakers, a long sleeve waffle knit shirt, skinny jeans, and a tie dye beanie. "I loved how cozy and wintry this little delivery I put together looked when it arrived! I knew my son would love the boots and seeing it all together I figured it would be a perfect winter outfit for him!". Pros and Cons Pros Only pay the monthly fee when you want to shop Monthly fee goes towards clothing on the site You get rewards points for every purchase that you can use for additional clothes Cons Rewards points expire after 1 year or if you cancel 16. Short Story Best for Petites Image provided by Short Story. Fast Facts Cost: $25 styling fee + cost of items you keep Sizes: Women: 0-20P Clothing Items Per Box: 5 Subscription Box Details Each Short Story box comes with 5-6 different items - think tops, jeans, pants, dresses, and more. Petites never have to worry about receiving clothes that look like they were pulled from the kids' aisle thanks to their wide range of sizes. While we don't have any recent reviews from our writers covering Short Story, several of our readers have tried out Short Story. We found the following reviews most helpful when considering whether or not to try this styling service: "I don't personally enjoy spending hours and hours browsing online only to find that half the stuff doesn't fit me, so this has been a great option. You get 5 days to try things on and decide if you want to purchase them. I've been pleasantly surprised by how well my stylist has gotten to know my style (granted I did give her a lot of detailed notes on what brands I like + how I like my clothes to fit)." - Jennifer "Hate that pants NEVER fit me, finally found the place with Short Story! I've found some great denim that I'm not swimming in and some super cute blazers. My Stylist has been so thoughtful, I love seeing her notes in every box 🙂 Can't wait for my next one!". - Angela Hernandez Pros and Cons Pros Dedicated to petites 5 pieces per box Options for every occasion Cons Charged styling fee even if you don't keep anything Clothing Subscription Box FAQs What is a clothing subscription box? A clothing subscription box delivers several pieces of clothing per month and sometimes includes accessories and shoes. Rather than have to shop in person, subscribers can receive new clothing on demand or rent a set number of pieces for a certain length of time. Clothing subscription services either deliver clothing for you to own outright or allow you to try before you buy. Most brands that offer a rental subscription service will provide major discounts on their clothing if you keep all items in your clothing subscription box. How much are clothing subscription boxes? Most clothing subscription boxes range from $20-$50, but higher-end fashion boxes can cost upwards of $75-$150. Some brands require that you pay a flat fee that covers ownership of all items, whereas others require you to pay an initial styling fee and then cover the remaining cost of any items you keep. Styling fees typically cost $20, but many brands that offer higher-end fashion pieces cost much more.
