TL;DR Rent the Runway is best for those who don’t mind paying more for the best rental experience. They carry the largest assortment of brands, offer the most plans and flexibility, and set the bar for customer service. Nuuly is great for those who want a straightforward rental service for under $100. They carry plus, petite, tall, and maternity sizing, making them the most inclusive rental service as well. Fashionpass offers the flexibility of RTR for a cheaper price. They carry trendy pieces for both formal and casual occasions. Armoire lets you rent as many clothes as possible with its Unlimited plan where you swap items as many times as you'd like a month. With rising prices, looming tariffs, and predictions of an incoming recession, we’re all trying to save money these days. And sadly, splurging on clothes is one of the first things to go when cutting costs. But how’s a girl to keep up with microtrends and clothing cores? Easy—clothing rental services. For just about $100 a month, these sites promise a new wardrobe you can rent or buy at a discount. “Clothing rentals are great for anyone who doesn't want a long-term commitment with clothes but wants something new each time,” says Samantha Dawn, personal stylist and style coach. “Maybe you want to try a new trend, or you have a really special event, but don't want to invest in a piece that you'll only wear once. It's sustainable and budget-friendly and a great way to be experimental.” Here are our honest thoughts about the most popular clothing rental services today. Top Picks How We Tested Clothing Rental Services As Byrdie editors, we always look for new outfits for the office and work events, so we decided to test the most popular clothing rental services to see if they saved us money in the long run. We tested them across body types and personal aesthetics to see how well they cater to different needs. While using them for a month, we paid special attention to the clothing selection and sizes, ease of shipping and returns, and quality of the pieces we received—since no one wants to wear clothing that looks like it’s been passed down by hundreds of people. What to Look for in a Clothing Rental Service Brands: When choosing between rental services, we think the most important consideration is whether they carry the brands and styles you like. "Always look for services that offer a variety of styles and brands that align with your personal fashion vibe," says celebrity fashion stylist Kim Appelt. "Consider your lifestyle needs—whether it's for work, special events, or casual wear." Most rental services advertise which brands they carry, and you can browse through their styles before signing up to get a feel for the assortment. Size Options: Likewise, you want to make sure the site carries your sizes, especially if you like to shop plus-size, tall, or petite styles. Number of Items and Shipments: Before signing up, check out the plans the site offers. Think about how many items you realistically need and will be able to wear a month. If you are going to the office every day and need a new look each time, it can be worth the splurge to pay for a higher membership and receive more shipments per month. Alternatively, if you only want a few items, choose the plan that offers the best value. Best Overall Rent The Runway Can rent items for as long as you like Different plan options with multiple shipments a month Largest assortment of brands (750+) Have to pay extra for access to full assortment Key Specs Subscription Price: Starting at $79 | Items Per Order: 5 | Top Brands: Tory Burch, Jason Wu, Kate Spade, Ulla Johnson, etc. How It Works Known as the OG clothing rental service, Rent the Runway has been in the game for over a decade and offers the most flexibility for renters, hence why we crown it best overall. There are several plans to choose from—starting at $79 a month for five items, all the way to $316 a month for 30 items. The important thing to note is that with all the plans, you can only have five items rented out at a time—so the 30 item plan means you get six shipments of five items a month rather than renting out 30 items at the same time. We appreciate this setup because it allows you to swap items you don’t love or have already worn, rather than having to keep them for the entire month. And if there’s a style you don’t want to send back already? You can technically keep any item you’re renting for as long as you want—it’ll just count towards your five-item quota. Our Experience RTR may have gotten a bad rap in the past for being sold out of popular styles or having a stale assortment, but we didn't find this to be the case when testing out the service. We found the site easy to navigate and the assortment curated and fresh. We were able to rent several seasonal dresses and set notifications for popular items we wanted in the future. Nearly all the items came in great condition, with several being brand new. Customer service was excellent. They personally reached out to us to check if we were having a good experience and if everything fit. Shipping only took two days in New York City, and we loved that we could schedule a pickup for the returns. Carrying nearly 800 brands—400 of which are designer—RTR has the largest brand assortment out of all the rentals we tested, making it a great choice for those who want the most comprehensive, flexible rental experience. Product Images Retail Value of Our Orders $2,632 $1,647 Tester Quotes Dominique Hobdy , senior editor: “I was really happy with the pieces I received. I've been really wanting to buy more fun, spring/summer dresses, and renting them just felt like such a great way to get the experience without breaking the bank.” Most Size-Inclusive Nuuly Curated selection of plus-size, petite, tall, and maternity styles Detailed, helpful reviews Mix of casual and luxury pieces from contemporary brands Can’t replace items if they don't fit Have to return all items together Key Specs Subscription Price: $98 | Items Per Order: 6 | Top Brands: For Love & Lemons, Rumored, Agolde, Show Me Your Mumu How It Works Nuuly only offers one subscription plan—$98 to rent six pieces for a month. Unlike with RTR or Fashionpass, where you get a few shipments a month, you only get one order with Nuuly, and unfortunately, you can’t swap or replace items even if they don’t fit. You also have to return all the items together at the end of your rental period, or anything you keep will be considered a purchase. You can always send back your items early to unlock your next shipment ahead of schedule, or you can keep your shipment longer than a month without a late fee, but that cuts into your rental period for the next month. While we find this setup a bit more restrictive than RTR or Fashionpass, we appreciate the simplicity of not having to juggle several orders and returns. All you have to do is place an order at the beginning of the month and return everything at the end. Simple enough. Our Experience URBN owns Nuuly, but its assortment is wider than just Urban Outfitters and Anthropologie (there are about 400 different brands, to be exact). We were impressed by the range of pieces, running the gamut from crop tops to wedding guest-worthy gowns. Compared to the other services, Nuuly is the most size-inclusive, with dedicated pages for petite, plus-size, tall, and maternity styles. Yet the best part might be the customer reviews. Nearly every item has a slew of detailed critiques with photos that are spot on about the fit and quality of an item. Of the few items we rented and didn’t end up liking, we could go back and look at the reviews and see the same issues we had called out. Shipping was fast with plenty of tracking updates. Our orders had a good mix of brand-new pieces with some used pieces. The used styles were in good condition for the most part, but a couple had small stains, yet they were still wearable. We felt like we got the most bang for our buck by renting high-priced items and going for newer pieces (we gauged how old an item was by looking back at the first reviews). Though Nuuly isn’t perfect, other sites have some advantages in terms of flexibility and features—you can’t get notified if an item you want is back in stock—we still recommend it as an affordable, easy-to-use option. And in certain situations, like going on a month-long vacation, getting one order with six items is easier than dealing with multiple shipments. Product Images Retail Value of Our Orders $1,095 $670 $1,758 Tester Quotes Shauna Beni-Haynes , former senior editor: “The site was also very mobile-friendly, and I made most of my selections from the Nuuly app on my phone. I really loved the selection of clothing from various brands available on Nuuly. I feel like there’s a nice mix between affordable and luxury brands.” Best for Tall Girlies Fashionpass Two shipments a months Tall person friendly Clothing looks like new Not many plus-size or petite options Key Specs Subscription Price: $125 | Items Per Order: 5 | Top Brands: Amanda Uprichard, Favorite Daughter, Good American, Pistola, etc. How It Works Fashionpass is a good middle ground between Nuuly and RTR—it’s more flexible than Nuuly yet not as expensive as RTR. You get two shipments of five items a month for $125. If there’s a style you really love, you can roll it over to your next shipment and keep it longer. Our Experience Though Fashionpass doesn’t offer a ton of plus-size or petite sizes, Senior Editor Lauren Pardee tested the service and was impressed with how she was actually able to find clothing that fit her 5-foot, 10-inch frame. Thanks to the site’s detailed reviews and sizing information, she knew what sizes to order and everything fit correctly, including the hardest thing to shop for—a pair of jeans. She was able to pick pieces for different occasions such as a wedding, vacation, and family gathering. The styles felt trendy and of the moment, and all of the pieces ended up looking brand new. Product Images Retail Value of Our Order $1,318 Tester Quotes Lauren Pardee, senior editor: “The clothing exceeded expectations. For a tall girl like me (5'10''), I almost never find pants that fit right via these rental services, but that was not the case this time. Thanks to the detailed sizing instructions and reviews, I found that all the clothing fit really nicely—pants included.” Best Unlimited Armoire Unlimited plan offers unlimited clothing swaps a month Personal styling service available You can keep the clothes until the new shipment arrives Return process could be smoother Key Specs Subscription Price: Starting at $89 | Items Per Order: 4 | Top Brands: ASTR The Label, DL1961, Paige, Hudson, French Connection How It Works Armoire is one of those rental services that is more under the radar, but it shouldn’t be slept on. Out of all the services we tried, it’s the only one that offers a plan with unlimited swaps a month. That’s right—you can constantly receive new items if the ones you have don’t work for you or you already wore them. But even the less expensive plans have perks, like the ability to keep your case of items until the next one arrives. Our Experience When you first sign up for Armoire, you take a style quiz to curate pieces for your aesthetic and sizes. We enjoyed browsing the suggested shopping edits, but we also appreciated how the site doesn’t limit you to only what the quiz suggests, which we’ve found to be an issue with similar services in the past. The brand assortment reminded us of what you would find at your favorite department store—tried-and-true quality brands rather than the newest, trendiest labels. We were impressed with the wide assortment of designer jeans—from brands like DL1961, Paige, Hudson—as well as cashmere sweaters and outerwear. We were browsing for a very specific aesthetic in mind—tropical vacation—so it took some digging to find what we were looking for. But what we found extremely helpful was looking at product reviews, and then looking at the other pieces the reviewer had saved or reviewed. This led us to some hidden gems that weren’t coming up on the site on their own. Eventually, we were able to find some vibrant pieces that were perfect for our trip. Shipping was fast, and a couple of the pieces we received were brand new, but even the ones that weren’t could fool you based on their pristine condition. The only hiccup we faced was with the returns. Shipping and returns are free, and they include a return label with your shipment. However, it seemed that the site wasn’t tracking our return in real time, as it said it was missing even when it was delivered. Thankfully, the site has a robust customer service team that quickly resolved the issue. Product Images Retail Value of Our Order $1,159 Tester Quotes Emily Cieslak , associate editor: "Armoire was a lifesaver when it came to packing for my last-minute vacation. I was able to find several dresses that were brand new and perfect for the location. Best of all, the shipment came in a couple of days, so I had time to spare when it came to coordinating my outfits." How often will I receive clothes via a clothing rental service? Each clothing rental service has a different policy regarding how many items you can receive per month and how long you can use them. Typically, you’ll be able to select a certain number of styles per month and keep them for 30 days. With some companies like Rent The Runway, you’re able to receive several shipments. Can I buy any of the pieces I receive through a clothing rental service? Yes, most services allow you to purchase any items you love at a discount. How do I return the items after I wear them? When it’s time to send your items back, the process is simple. Most clothing rental services will take care of the heavy lifting by providing you with a garment bag to pack your items in and a prepaid shipping label. Then, you simply drop your items off at a post office or with a designated shipping carrier. Meet Our Experts For this article, we interviewed the following fashion experts: Kim Appelt is a celebrity fashion stylist and bestselling author of Style for Everybody. Samantha Dawn is a personal stylist and style coach who works with women founders, execs, and creatives who are stepping into a new chapter and would love their style to match the energy of who they’ve become. Why Trust Byrdie Emily Cieslak is an associate editor who has spent years working in the fashion industry. She loves being experimental with fashion and trying new trends, so clothing rentals are right up her alley. She tested several services on this list as well as spoke to style experts on how to get the most out of them.
