I am comparing the best fashion subscription boxes and reviewing them for you to find the best for you. I have always been into subscription boxes but most of them are beauty boxes. However, I had no idea that there are so many fashion subscription boxes and rental services online available (maybe because the majority of them are located in the USA and Canada). Comparing fashion subscription boxes Fabletics Short Story Short Story is subscription box and stylist services for petite women or short women under 5’4. I wrote a whole blog post interviewing the CEO of Short story! Stitch Fix Curateur Wantable Amazon Personal stylist Savage X Fenty Just Fab Just Fab box offers a huge variety of clothes. Choose items that you want to try out and send back the rest. As with many of these fashion boxes, you can skip the month. Do a quiz for the company to know your style and what you need. Last but not least, free returns. Trunk club Trunk Club is a Nordstrom-style subscription. Just like other subscriptions, Trunk Club finds out your style with the help of quizzes. Subscriptions are not necessary, keep what you love and send back the rest. Free shipping and return. Beachly Beachly is a surf subscription box. Carefully curated, beach-inspired apparel, accessories and beauty introduces you to new brands and keeps you stocked with your favorites. Connect with other beach lovers, discover new brands. If you are a beach lover like I am, go for beach trips often, you will love this fashion subscription box. Rent the runway Rent the Runway is a rental service where you finally do not need to shop to always look good! Wear your favorite designers and try new brands and styles by renting from Rent the Runway. Finally the solution to wearing everything you want, no purchase necessary. Your style, size, and budget change over time but it is not a problem anymore. Most clothes we buy end up in the back of closets. Power the sharing economy and rent instead. Adore me Adore Me offers a subscription box service that delivers underwear products to your door for a “try before you buy” experience. The stylist curates the box to your tastes with the help of a style quiz and the box always contains three different “sets” of clothing. Do not worry, you can skip some months if you want to! Dia & Co Dia&Co is a plus-size subscription box. Dia & Co . is a women’s plus size clothing subscription box that caters to women sizes 14-32 and 1X-5X. Each Dia And Co box includes 5 new styles chosen by your personal stylist or you can choose 3 of the 5 items to really customize your box . A $20 styling fee is charged for each box which is credited towards any pieces you decide to keep. Click on my link and get 25$ off your first purchase. Ellie Fitness Ellie is a monthly fitness subscription box for women that includes a full coordinated activewear outfit for just $39.95 per month plus free shipping. Choose your fitness outfit from the newest collection each month! Each outfit includes a top and bottoms. Gwynnie bee Gwynnie bee was made for women and men to always look and feel good no matter the size or the trend. Traditional shopping is not in style- it limits your possibilities, your routine, and your life. Nadine West Founded in 2013, Nadine West sends personalized outfits to your doorstep every month. The box includes no subscription fees. Pay for only what you like and send back the rest. Return shipping is included in the price. Each month features surprise outfits. Based on what you keep, our experts learn more about your existing tastes, helping you discover new styles each month! Get 10$ off from the first order using my code. Style plan Style Plan by Frank And Oak is a clothing subscription for women and men from a Canadian brand. The brand often uses recycled and organic materials. Style plan motivates you to feel good about what you wear and becomes more sustainable. Yoga Club All YogaClub memberships and outfits are 100% hand-curated. Fill the quiz for Yoga Club to send you the best outfits just for you! Outfits are perfect to wear during yoga sessions or outside of them. The club offers different membership options. Basic Woman Basic Woman is a women’s monthly subscription box, bringing you basics of the best quality and great comfort. Each month brings a matching set consisting of a top, one pair of undies, and a pair of socks. The Basic subscriptions come with sustainable shirts, underwear, and socks starting under $ 20 USD each month (through the 12-month prepaid option), and most regularly at $ 24.99 USD monthly. My fashion crate The subscription box for fashionistas delivering a package of stylish outfits to your door. My Fashion Crate gives fashion fans the opportunity to be dressed in the latest fashion easily. The box was created to make fashion fun, effortless and accessible. Outfits include shirts, sweaters, dresses, skirts, or outerwear. The subscription box even offers gift cards from the best fashion brands and accessories. NY&C closet NY & C C loset is an online monthly subscription rental service that gives you access to hundreds of NY&C looks for one flat fee. It works on a set-of-3 concept. Subscriptions include unlimited shipping and exchanges for a flat monthly fee. FabFitFun FabFitFun is one of the first and most popular subscription services. The FabFitFun Box, delivers a curated collection of full-size products across beauty, fashion, wellness, fitness, home, technology. In addition to the box, FabFitFun members receive access to FabFitFunTV (a streaming video service).
