Skip to content Despite the Eleventh Circuit holding that the Corporate Transparency Act is constitutional, an interim rule from Treasury means that domestic companies are not subject to beneficial ownership information reporting requirements. At the AICPA National Tax Conference, digital assets expert Nik Fahrer, CPA, sympathized with tax pros who dread the upcoming tax season because of digital asset reporting requirements. Among other changes, the guidance explains that bronze and catastrophic plans are considered HSA-compatible under Sec. 223. In a letter to Treasury and the IRS, the AICPA seeks changes to tax reporting requirements for partnerships and S corporations. The Justice Department dropped its appeal in a case challenging a Biden-era regulation, leaving financial advisers free from new fiduciary duties for now. The proposed regulations will deal with changes included in H.R. 1, P.L. 119-21, commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. The IRS released initial details on Trump accounts, a new type of IRA for some children. Also, a billionaire business executive pledged $6.25 billion to provide 25 million children with a $250 contribution to a Trump account. The IRS published final regulations that scrap the proposed funding rule and ease compliance for M&A deals, preferred stock, and netting provisions. A letter urges an exception to the current “all or nothing” approach that prevents U.S. companies from deducting any part of a dual consolidated loss if even a portion of the DCL was used in a foreign country. During a session at the AICPA National Tax Conference, the national taxpayer advocate said the IRS will start applying first-time abatements automatically next year. The IRS also is updating some income tax forms and instructions to help taxpayers claim the deductions. The proposed merger of the Office of Professional Responsibility and the Return Preparer Office would blur “the public’s ability to perceive the distinction between credentialed, uncredentialed, and unenrolled preparers,” the AICPA said in a letter. Three former IRS leaders, speaking at the 2025 AICPA National Tax Conference, discussed the agency’s future and what happens if a shutdown occurs during filing season. Arthur Auerbach, an AICPA volunteer for 23 years, and Cory Perry, the chair of the AICPA’s Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development Task Force, received the tax profession’s highest honors. The IRS announced inflation-adjusted limits on benefits and contributions for various retirement accounts on Thursday, including maximum contribution amounts for 401(k) plans and traditional and Roth IRAs. In court documents filed in a lawsuit, officials said 1,446 Treasury employees received reduction-in-force notices, including 1,399 at the IRS. The IRS cited low usage and high costs as reasons for shuttering the program, which began during the previous administration. An IRS notice says employers won’t face penalties if they don’t provide a separate accounting of cash tips and overtime compensation for tax year 2025 under H.R. 1. Oscar Vives, who will speak at the AICPA’s National Tax Conference on retirement strategies, says the experience of growing up with a single mother who worked multiple blue-collar jobs strengthened his resolve to use his math skills and help his family. Individual taxable earnings of up to $184,500 annually will be subject to Social Security tax in 2026, the Social Security Administration said. The SSA also announced a cost-of-living adjustment of 2.8% for both Social Security and Supplemental Security Income benefits for next year. TAX PRACTICE MANAGEMENT 2025 tax software survey AICPA members in tax practice assess how their return preparation software performed during tax season and offer insights into their procedures. Tax Clinic
