Skip to content TOPICS Despite the Eleventh Circuit holding that the Corporate Transparency Act is constitutional, an interim rule from Treasury means that domestic companies are not subject to beneficial ownership information reporting requirements. At the AICPA National Tax Conference, digital assets expert Nik Fahrer, CPA, sympathized with tax pros who dread the upcoming tax season because of digital asset reporting requirements. Get an inside look at the AICPA’s tax advocacy focus, including improving taxpayer service and shaping IRS processes for a smoother filing season. Listen to the podcast episode or read the Q&A with the AICPA’s vice president–Tax Policy & Advocacy. Among other changes, the guidance explains that bronze and catastrophic plans are considered HSA-compatible under Sec. 223. In a letter to Treasury and the IRS, the AICPA seeks changes to tax reporting requirements for partnerships and S corporations. The proposed regulations will deal with changes included in H.R. 1, P.L. 119-21, commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. This episode summarizes results of a recent quarterly survey on economic and business sentiment, mentions IRS news, and previews future content. Listen to the episode or read the transcript. The IRS released initial details on Trump accounts, a new type of IRA for some children. Also, a billionaire business executive pledged $6.25 billion to provide 25 million children with a $250 contribution to a Trump account. The IRS published final regulations that scrap the proposed funding rule and ease compliance for M&A deals, preferred stock, and netting provisions. Multinational enterprises’ subsidiaries need other incentives to optimize their performance if transfer pricing policies guarantee them a routine profit. The appellate court holds that the Sec. 6213(a) deadline for filing a Tax Court deficiency petition is nonjurisdictional and subject to equitable tolling. Advances made by a taxpayer in its business of managing an arena were not bona fide debt, and the taxpayer was not entitled to a bad-debt deduction when the advances became worthless. The taxpayer’s predeceased spouse’s estate failed to timely file an estate return and did not qualify for the safe harbor in Rev. Proc. 2017-34, so its portability election was invalid, the Tax Court held. IRS finalizes regulations for Roth catch-up contributions under SECURE 2.0 … IRS releases draft form for tip, overtime, car loan, and senior deductions … IRS warns taxpayers: Social media advice can lead to costly penalties … Guidance on research or experimental expenditures under H.R. 1 issued … Draft 2026 Form W-2 includes boxes and codes for tips and overtime … Treasury posts preliminary list of jobs eligible for no tax on tips A letter urges an exception to the current “all or nothing” approach that prevents U.S. companies from deducting any part of a dual consolidated loss if even a portion of the DCL was used in a foreign country. During a session at the AICPA National Tax Conference, the national taxpayer advocate said the IRS will start applying first-time abatements automatically next year. The IRS also is updating some income tax forms and instructions to help taxpayers claim the deductions. The proposed merger of the Office of Professional Responsibility and the Return Preparer Office would blur “the public’s ability to perceive the distinction between credentialed, uncredentialed, and unenrolled preparers,” the AICPA said in a letter. Three former IRS leaders, speaking at the 2025 AICPA National Tax Conference, discussed the agency’s future and what happens if a shutdown occurs during filing season. Arthur Auerbach, an AICPA volunteer for 23 years, and Cory Perry, the chair of the AICPA’s Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development Task Force, received the tax profession’s highest honors. SPONSORED REPORT Preparing clients for new provisions next tax season As the 2025 filing season approaches, H.R. 1 introduces significant tax reforms that CPAs must be prepared to navigate. These legislative changes represent some of the most comprehensive tax updates in recent years, affecting both individual and corporate taxpayers. This report provides in-depth analysis and guidance on H.R. 1. From The Tax Adviser
