Jump to Latest KRAZIEWILLIE #1 · Customers are often shocked at the price of diagnosis and repairs for plumbing. To be fair, it’s much less fun to pay to fix a backed-up drain than to make an extra payment on a new car, but there’s a reason they need to call in experts! You know what you’re doing and can save a homeowner thousands of dollars in the long run, especially if they call you in early enough to catch issues that prevent further damage. So while the price tag may not be anything to smile about, when homeowners pay for a high-quality plumbing job, they’re getting their money’s worth. Sometimes, business owners fall into the same trap of not wanting to spend money on something with what seems like a huge price tag. Usually, it’s because the upfront cost won’t show an immediate return on investment. This might be the case if you’re on the fence about purchasing a sewer camera. While not every plumber needs one, it will definitely give you an advantage in certain markets. If you do mostly new home installations, a sewer camera may not be something you’d find useful every day. But if you work in a lot of old neighborhoods or get called to diagnose clogs, backups, or odors in homes, you will probably see your business benefit if you invest in a sewer camera. Advantages of Owning a Sewer Camera Even though sewer cameras can be somewhat expensive, there are plenty of benefits to owning one. Gain customer trust: Just like a customer doesn’t expect the doctor to tell them what’s wrong at no charge, they shouldn’t expect you to tell them whey their basement smells like sewage without expecting to pay for it. Some customers, unfortunately, seem to feel that many home repair guys are simply out to get every penny they can. A sewer camera lets you show the customer that they really do have a problem, so they know you’re not charging them unnecessarily. Customers may also expect you to use a camera before starting on any major repairs, so not having one may damage your credibility. Accurate diagnosis: A sewer camera is one of the best tools for finding out the cause and location of a clog. You can always just run a snake and hope it fixes it, but a camera is the best way to see what’s going on and where. If you do have to dig underground to fix damaged pipes, knowing exactly what you’re dealing with and precisely where it’s located can save you a ton of time and grief. And again, the customer may want proof before they pay you to fix a big issue. Cheaper than renting: If you rarely work on the kinds of calls that need a sewer camera, you might rent one occasionally. If you’re not trying to expand your business into working more where you’d need one, this may be an acceptable option. If you’re trying to save up for a camera, though, and you keep paying to rent one, you’re probably wasting a lot more money on rental costs. It may be worth it to start with the cheapest sewer camera that will do the job so you can start getting more business with it, then saving up for a nicer one as you’re able. And don’t forget, it can be deducted as a business expense on your taxes. When it comes down to it, a sewer camera is probably something that many customers will expect you to have. Not only can you diagnose clogs and find breaks in pipes, but you’ll be able to show proof for your recommendations and build customer trust. We’d love to hear your thoughts! Do you think most plumbers need a sewer camera? What kind do you recommend? Let us know in the comments! #2 · It's useful for some and money makers for others but... I have 2 cameras, one for big pipes and one for small ones. Total waste of money for me, No one wants to pay, No one! Not even when I'm on site. Only got 1 call who actually paid because they were repeat customers. #7 · Time to start using it as a tool to sell a job instead of trying to charge extra for camera use. It’s better than it collecting dust. I charge for it if I’m doing camera inspection only. But if I quote a clean out install and they agree to the repair I don’t charge for the camera to locate it. If I feel my cable going into the dirt during a drain cleaning I’ll camera inspect to find where it is to sell the repair. If they’re watching you do the location just mark like 6 different places so they don’t know exactly where the problem is in case they hire someone else. #3 · well if you cant get enough sewer work just start doing colonoscopies.....................:vs_laugh::vs_laugh:...........or do side work for a proctologist..... either way your dealing with a schitty hole... #4 · Its definitely useful with the sewer camera. I try and let my customers no what the price is before I even unload my equipment. #5 · maybe you can use your camera to see that you do a proper intro... #10 · see tango you have me and debo telling you the same thing. and hes 100 correct. thats the whole issue with plumbers and plumbers/technicians. it takes some practiceto come up with your own approach/ sales technique. but if youre on a stoppage call, is it really any work to grab a little 3-5lbs. camera off the truck and throw it in the line. another thing the more you use that camera the better you'll be at truly understanding what it is your looking at. i promise you this you master that camera and moniter, you will EASILY!!! triple your revenue. there more to it than looking for a root penetration, a belly, collapse those are the obvious, where you really get good is when you can notice the pipe and fittings under stress from soil expansion and contraction, or be able to find a fitting thats leaking below slab and the system isnt noticeably broken. or you clear a stoppage then run camera to find out why it stopped up. you dont see an obvious reason. but me and debo would catch it. and its a fitting thats the cause. can physically see but based the amount of waste build up on that fitting both top,bottom,and sides, but everything downstream pipe is clean as usual, move past that fitting, and the pipe also has lots of build up also. making that fitting the front of the train, takes time but eventually youll get so good for instance one of your plumbers in the field calls he running the camera and you listen as he explains what he is seeing each step of the way, and you help him find the root cause of blockage. sure our cable machine unstop a line but is it a long term fix or is it short term solution for long term issue. another thing that camera do, it will help you upsale hydroscrubs, aka jet jobs. and yes there is a difference between the 2. jetting a line simply put is using the jetter in place of the cable machine. where as HYDROSCRUBBING. is exactly as its name states. its using hydro pressure to scrub the line free and clear of all build up from many years of use. or customer has major belly. youve been going out there about every 6months. you finally run the camera and there it is the mother of all mothers of bellies. you already cleared the line. now you can show customer WHY!!! its happening. and you show all the solid buildup collecting in the belly. see now you just got the customer involved in the process, hes already began to trust you because you just did something no other PLUMBER has done before (RUN THE CAMERA) (PHYSICALLY SHOWED HIM NOT TOLD HIM) AND YOU DIDNT CHARGE A DIME for an extra 15-20 minutes of your time. his next statement will be something like WOW that a pretty camera you got there. then his next question will probably be well how do we fix it to where this doesnt happen again. and thats when you give him an estimate for hydroscrub, 15ft spot repair, or a full line replacement. most of the time they go middle of the road. that camera needsto become your sidekick aka american express. just ask debo for his opinion. look i see this a way to truly seperate yourself from the others. you work at it hard enough. those other local plumbers will call you to come do a video inspection for their customers. i do it all the time here for other local plumber. and in return i dont take food off their tables. their customers ask me all the time how much would i charge to fix it. i tell them point blank. this is something their capable of fixing. but if it was under the slab thats my domain. been working together with these other plumbers and their customers for years #12 · I don't dig outside and I don't want too. Leave the 6-8' backhoe trench for others. I also won't break concrete in the entire basement to repipe. A spot repair is okay and I do it occasionally where the fitting cracks at the floor level. I'm a one man show doing small jobs. I don't want employees, a secretary, an estimator etc. I don't want to get involved in hiring an excavator who won't show up or create more damages. They can take on stresses of earning big bucks and sometimes the lawsuits, complaints an whatever other troubles that comes along with the territory. My niche is being nimble, doing service work others think it's dirty and brings in chump change. I'll take it because... :wink: If you want to work 7 days a week and late nights making tons of money that's fine but you won't have time to enjoy the toys. I enjoy my toys. I'm not waiting till I get to 50 years old to get diagnosed with cancer or something. #11 · response to customers statement well then if you didnt like his opinion then why did you pay him? also if you go to a second doctor, for a seond opinion to you pay him, or does he do it for free just because YOU FEEL THE OTHER DR WAS WRONG? you dont want to pay a plumber but youll pay some quack doctors when plumbers have saved more lives throughout history than any doctors combined. PLUMBERS PROTECTING THE HEALTH OF NATION #13 · i have a rigid camera 100ft its work great but it was like $5000, i have been doing a lot of drain cleaning and it has help a lot . I charge 250 for 1/2 hr. camera work I let them up front before I head out. if they don't like the price call some one else #14 · Anyone know how much guys are charging for camera work in the Philadelphia suburbs area? #15 · Nope. in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, your looking “about” $300-$500 to snake and camera a residential main drain. #16 · That sounds about right. The 2 companies i've subbed it out to are $450-$550. That gets you 2 hours.
