empower your fitness journey with AF TRAINING Take your fitness journey to the next level with personalized training support, guidance, and technology. FIND YOUR GYM coaching expertise personalized to your goals Whether you’re a seasoned gym-goer or just getting started, we’ve got your back. If you just want to do your thing, the Anytime Fitness App is like having a Coach in your pocket. If you are looking for more hands-on support to accelerate your progress, our AF Coach-led personal training options may be exactly what you need. Shaped by real-world experience with millions of members and backed by a science-based approach. Did you know? Personal Trainers Boost Success by 30% Working with a personal trainer (aka an AF Coach) can increase the success of reaching your fitness goals by more than 30% according to the Journal of Sports Science & Medicine. Get Started with a Free Fitness Consultation In this 1-on-1 session, an expert AF Coach will discuss your goals and use the Evolt body composition scanner to establish your baseline. Then using your data and the latest science, they’ll create a personalized plan for training, nutrition, and recovery to guide your fitness journey. SCIENCE-BASED FITNESS TRAINING BUILT ON 4 key PILLARS Shaped by real-world experience with millions of members and backed by a science-based approach, AF Training delivers safe, effective, and sustainable results for your body and mind. We use proven methods that focus on muscle development, holistic physical and mental health, program variety, and progress measurement. strength + cardiovascular training optimizes performance By combining resistance training with cardio, AF Training improves your strength, performance, and energy levels. Builds and maintains muscle strength and endurance Boosts metabolism and manages weight Promotes heart health and reduces stress Functional Fitness Enhances Mobility & Balance Functional training is designed to improve the quality of real-life activities by improving your ability to squat, lunge, push, and pull. Promotes a more active and enjoyable lifestyle Reduces pain and discomfort during everyday activities Decreased risk of injury Workout Variety Boosts Confidence & Outcomes Each training session is unique and designed to keep you motivated and challenged on your path to achieve lasting results. Enhanced self-esteem and body confidence Increased mental resilience and stamina Workout variety helps builds physical abilities Interconnected Technology Assess & Track Progress By harnessing a range of fitness technologies, such as the Evolt 360 body composition scanner, the Anytime Fitness App, and Apple Health/Google Health Connect, we use data to gauge progress beyond the scale, personalize your plan, and celebrate your success. Tracking provides measurable proof of progress Monitoring can increase accountability Provides a sense of accomplishment find a gym near you Find your nearest Anytime Fitness to learn more, get a free trial pass, or schedule a fitness consultation. Kickstart Your Training EXPERTISE DRIVEN BY SCIENCE, EXPERIENCE … AND SWEAT Anytime Fitness proudly partners with the National Academy of Sports Medicine (NASM) to regularly review our AF Training programming, validating its science-based approach, effectiveness, and safety. learn more to find the af training path that is right for you learn more to find the af training path that is right for you Free Fitness Consultation Offer available to new customers only. Valid only at participating Anytime Fitness clubs. Good for one (1) fitness consultation for 1 person, during staffed hours at the identified Anytime Fitness club location. Appointment required. Not valid at other locations. Liability waiver required and other terms and conditions apply. May be subject to eligibility or availability restrictions. No cash value, not valid with any other offer, no refunds or credits. Each Anytime Fitness location is independently owned and operated. Void where prohibited.
