Family-Friendly Picks on Paramount+ Family-Friendly Picks on Paramount+ Check out our family-friendly picks on Paramount+ over the holidays, from animated adventures to heartwarming classics perfect for all ages! Staff Picks: What to Watch in December Staff Picks: What to Watch in December Take a look at the IMDb staff picks for the best movies and series coming in December. "Landman" Stars Through the Years "Landman" Stars Through the Years From Ocean's Twelve and Resident Evil: Afterlife to Bad Santa , check out the TV and movie roles of Andy Garcia, Ali Larter, Billy Bob Thornton, and more stars of "Landman." December 2025 TV and Streaming Premiere Dates December 2025 TV and Streaming Premiere Dates Check out our December calendar to see when "Spartacus: House of Ashur" premieres, "Midsomer Murders" returns, and more. Holiday Movie & TV Picks on Paramount+ Holiday Movie & TV Picks on Paramount+ Stream festive holiday films, heartwarming specials, and seasonal TV episodes perfect for celebrating with family and friends. Everything New on Paramount+ in December Everything New on Paramount+ in December Settle in for entertainment-packed viewing on Paramount+ this month, featuring exciting new series launches and a stellar collection of films ready to stream. "Tulsa King" Stars Through the Years "Tulsa King" Stars Through the Years From Rocky V and "China Beach" to The Avengers , check out the TV and movie roles of Sylvester Stallone, Dana Delany, Samuel L. Jackson, and more stars of "Tulsa King." 20 Top-Rated Original Series on Paramount+ 20 Top-Rated Original Series on Paramount+ From "Dexter: Resurrection" to "MobLand," check out IMDb's top-rated Paramount+ Originals and discover your next binge-worthy obsession. Must-Stream Sci-Fi on Paramount+ Must-Stream Sci-Fi on Paramount+ From "Star Trek: Strange New Worlds" to Arrival , discover thrilling worlds of adventure, horror, and innovation with these 20 sci-fi picks streaming on Paramount+. Taylor Sheridan Projects, Ranked by IMDb Users Taylor Sheridan Projects, Ranked by IMDb Users From "Mayor of Kingstown" to "Yellowstone," check out writer/director Taylor Sheridan's most popular movies and TV series on IMDb, ranked by user rating. Renewed, Canceled, or Ending? Renewed, Canceled, or Ending? Check out our list of renewals and cancellations to see if your favorite show made the cut. Theatrical Releases You Can Stream or Rent Theatrical Releases You Can Stream or Rent These big screen releases can now be watched from the comfort of your couch. Everything New on Hulu & Disney+ in December Everything New on Hulu & Disney+ in December Freshen up your Watchlist with the latest roster of streaming movies and TV shows coming to Hulu and Disney+, featuring old favorites and top-notch newcomers. Horror Heroines on Paramount+ Horror Heroines on Paramount+ From "Yellowjackets" to Vicious , scream queens take center stage in these movies and series streaming on Paramount+. Animated Kids' Shows That Adults Love Animated Kids' Shows That Adults Love We rounded up the kids' animated shows that transcend all age targets thanks to their brilliant writing and amazing visuals, from "Avatar: The Last Airbender" to "Adventure Time." Crunchyroll's Fall 2025 Anime Lineup Crunchyroll's Fall 2025 Anime Lineup Get details on all the amazing series (subbed and dubbed!) streaming on Crunchyroll this autumn.
