AquaCulture Shock program, in collaboration with MIT-Scandinavia MISTI, offers international internships for AI and autonomy in aquaculture The virtual VideoCAD tool could boost designers’ productivity and help train engineers learning computer-aided design. The coding framework uses modular concepts and simple synchronization rules to make software clearer, safer, and easier for LLMs to generate. ChemXploreML makes advanced chemical predictions easier and faster — without requiring deep programming skills. A team of researchers has mapped the challenges of AI in software development, and outlined a research agenda to move the field forward. Lincoln Laboratory cybersecurity expert Hamed Okhravi calls for a unified approach to securing computer memory, as a matter of national security. Caitlin Morris, a PhD student and 2024 MAD Fellow affiliated with the MIT Media Lab, designs digital learning platforms that make room for the “social magic” that influences curiosity and motivation. A new framework from the MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab supercharges language models, so they can reason over, interactively develop, and verify valid, complex travel agendas. Researchers are developing algorithms to predict failures when automation meets the real world in areas like air traffic scheduling or autonomous vehicles. Lincoln Laboratory is transitioning tools to the 618th Air Operations Center to streamline global transport logistics. A new method from the MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab helps large language models to steer their own responses toward safer, more ethical, value-aligned outputs. The Tactile Vega-Lite system, developed at MIT CSAIL, streamlines the tactile chart design process; could help educators efficiently create these graphics and aid designers in making precise changes. First responders worldwide adopt Lincoln Laboratory's Next-Generation Incident Command System for enhanced situational awareness and coordination during emergencies. Associate Professor Luca Carlone is working to give robots a more human-like awareness of their environment. Using the island as a model, researchers demonstrate the “DyMonDS” framework can improve resiliency to extreme weather and ease the integration of new resources.
