What is international travel medical insurance? International travel medical insurance is secondary emergency coverage for people who are leaving their home country and provides coverage while they are outside of their country, whether that’s for a trip, work outside the country, a volunteer trip or any other travel circumstance. What does international travel medical insurance cover? International travel medical insurance typically offers benefits that cover emergency medical, dental and evacuation services. Some plans, like those with added travel protection benefits, cover specific travel-related circumstances, like trip cancellation, trip interruptions or lost baggage. Why buy international travel medical insurance and travel protection? With travel medical insurance and travel protection, you’ll have coverage to help protect your financial investment — and your health and safety. It’s your ticket to help you travel with less stress. Some advantages of choosing travel medical and trip protection include: Explore our top SafeTrip plans for travelers Our travel protection plans offer flexible benefits for any voyage — from bucket-list trips to out-of-country work and more. These 3 plan choices include coverage for everything from trip delays and cancellations to unexpected health care needs and helpful details like destination profiles and evacuation coverage. International Travel Medical Plus Protect yourself with a combination plan that covers unexpected medical needs and unanticipated trip cancellations. No deductibles Trip cancellation, interruption, delay and baggage coverage Medical and security assistance Option to add Extreme Sports and Rental car coverage International Travel Medical Choose plan options with emergency medical insurance for travel off the beaten path — and anywhere else your trip may take you. No deductibles Up to $1 million for medical expense limit Medical evacuation and medical assistance Option to add Extreme Sports coverage Travel Protection Be prepared by choosing a plan with backup for domestic U.S. trip cancellations, interruptions and delays. No deductibles Trip cancellation, interruption, delay and baggage coverage Full AD&D coverage Option to add Rental car coverage Why choose SafeTrip Travel Medical Insurance from UnitedHealthcare Global? Frequently asked questions about international travel medical plans Read on to learn more about why international travel medical plans may be right for you. If you’re traveling abroad, going on a business trip overseas or planning an expensive trip, travel insurance or travel protection may be a good choice for you. It’s a way to be better prepared for the possibility that your trip may be interrupted or canceled or if you experience a medical emergency while away. It’s coverage that connects you with medical care, travel protection and more. Nearly every traveler can benefit from the extra protection of travel medical insurance. Some in particular who may want to consider it include: Families with children Anyone visiting a country that speaks a different language Solo travelers Travelers to a remote location SafeTrip travel protection includes 3 plan options for you to choose from. The right plan for you will depend on your situation and the level of coverage that’s important to you. International Travel Medical Plus is a combination protection plan including travel medical insurance and travel protection (including trip cancellation). International Travel Medical Plus plans focus on coverage in the event your trip is cancelled or interrupted, but still includes eligible medical expense limits ranging from $50,000 to $150,000. International Travel Medical provides emergency travel medical coverage including evacuation. International Travel Medical plans are geared towards travelers who may want more robust medical coverage for unexpected accidents or sickness. These plans start at a minimum medical expense limit of $100,000 and allow for a maximum of $1,000,000. Travel Protection plans give you coverage if your trip is interrupted, delayed or cancelled in the U.S. — domestic travel only. Many health insurance plans do not cover you when you are out of the country. For those that do, the coverage is often limited and requires you to pay at the time of service, save receipts and file for reimbursement once you get home. In case of a medical or dental emergency while in another country, this could require you to spend a large amount of your own personal funds or charge significant amounts on credit cards while you are still traveling. Travel medical insurance plans typically cover emergency medical and dental costs. Emergency transportation costs, such as ambulance or air lift, also are often covered, as are emergency evacuations that would get you from a remote location to appropriate medical care. While travel insurance, or travel protection, is often more expensive than travel medical insurance, these plans give you the additional assurance that you are covered against the financial loss due to covered reasons under the policy. Travel protection costs are based on the total trip cost and can therefore vary by trip. Travel medical insurance, on the other hand, only covers you for any medical emergencies or medical evacuations and is often cheaper than the combined plans offering travel medical insurance and trip protection in one. It is generally recommended to purchase travel insurance as soon as you have made any non-refundable payments towards your trip. This helps to ensure that you are covered for any unforeseen circumstances that may arise before your departure. A SafeTrip policy can be purchased as little as 24-hours or one full day prior to travel departure. Even if you’re facing a non-medical challenge, UnitedHealthcare Global SafeTrip plans are here for you with support and assistance. You can call our 24/7 Emergency Response Center to assist with lost or stolen passports, legal referrals, translation services, emergency transfer of funds and a host of other non-medical problems. Please refer to your policy for details. If you currently have a SafeTrip plan and you need to make a claim, follow these simple steps: Visit CBP Connect Follow the instructions on screen For additional questions: Call: 1-877-693-8530 Ready for your next travel adventure? Get travel tips and information to help you on your way. Explore more supplemental plans View more plans, like dental, vision and other cash-benefit plans, that offer coverage for expenses not covered by a medical plan.
