Travel Insurance Get a travel insurance quote and protect your next trip For flight insurance protection: For all-in-one trip insurance protection: Manage Your Travel And Flight Insurance Need a travel insurance quote? Existing policyholder? Why Travel Insurance Matters Travel insurance provides peace of mind by offering protection against a wide range of travel-related risks. From covering non-refundable trip costs in case of cancellations to providing financial assistance for medical emergencies abroad, a comprehensive travel insurance plan ensures you are prepared for the unexpected. AirCare Flight Insurance If you only need to protect your travel costs for a flight, AirCare may be what you need. With affordable coverage for both domestic and international flights, AirCare flight insurance helps you plan with peace of mind. ExactCare Travel Insurance If you want to cover your flight and other trip arrangement's ExtraCare can help. An ExactCare Travel Insurance policy can help with the unexpected, such as: Trip Cancellations/Interruptions/Delays Lost/Stolen travel documents Unexpected medical expenses What's the difference between flight insurance and travel insurance? Flight insurance is a type of travel insurance that offers specific financial protection for air travel issues. Whereas travel insurance provides coverage for the entire travel experience from trip cancellations to medical emergencies and beyond. What Flight Insurance Covers AirCare Flight Insurance has a variety of benefits including emergency travel assistance, 24/7/365. Some common flight coverages are: Airfare incase flights are cancelled or you miss a connection Personal items like lost or delayed luggage Flight delays in your departure (at the gate or on the tarmac) What Travel Insurance Covers ExactCare Travel Insurance offers comprehensive protection tailored to residents of specific states or regions, with benefits that may vary depending on your location. This all-in-one travel protection comes with family friendly pricing and worldwide emergency travel assistance 24/7/365. Common things covered by travel insurance are: Trip cancellation or interruption Personal items like passports and luggage Medical costs like hospital and doctor expenses, medical evacuations, and more Travel Insurance Additional Coverage Travel insurance optional coverage upgrades vary by plan. They are tailored to meet your specific needs and offer an extra layer of security for unforeseen circumstances. Some popular travel insurance coverage options from GEICO include: Cancel for Any Reason (CFAR) Coverage: This type of coverage allows travelers to cancel their trip for any reason not covered by standard trip cancellation policies. It typically reimburses a percentage of the prepaid, non-refundable trip costs. Rental Car Collision Coverage: This optional coverage provides protection against damage to rental vehicles due to collision, theft, or vandalism while traveling. Baggage Delay or Loss Coverage: This coverage reimburses travelers for essential items, such as clothing and toiletries, lost due to baggage delay or loss. Pre-existing Medical Condition Coverage: Some travel insurance policies offer coverage for pre-existing medical conditions, which may otherwise be excluded from standard policies. Please note that this coverage can't be purchased as upgrades or add-ons. Please contact our specialist to learn more about this coverage as other restrictions may also apply. Natural Disaster Coverage: Provides coverage for trip cancellations, interruptions, or delays due to natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods. Please note that this coverage can't be purchased as upgrades or add-ons. Please contact our specialist to learn more about this coverage as other restrictions may also apply. Pet Coverage: This optional coverage reimburses travelers for expenses related to pet care if they need to extend their trip due to unforeseen circumstances. It does not provide the same coverage as dedicated pet insurance policies, so be sure to check with your provider for specifics. Extended Personal Liability Coverage: Offers protection against third-party claims for bodily injury or property damage caused by the traveler while on their trip. What Travel Insurance Does Not Cover Your travel insurance is based on the plan you choose. However, travel insurance does not usually cover the following: Action and team sports, for example auto racing, pro sports travel, or other extreme sport activities Travel to get medical care Trip Cancellation because you changed your mind For more information, please check your policy. Is travel or trip insurance worth the cost? Travel insurance can help protect your vacation or trips from unexpected things happening. You can travel without trip insurance but doing so brings greater risk if something goes wrong or you encounter unexpected delays. Flight insurance or trip insurance coverage can include things like flight cancellation, lost luggage, trip cancellation, emergency medical transportation, and more. Learn more about travel insurance and why you should get a travel insurance quote today! How Much is Travel Insurance? Travel insurance typically costs 5 to 10 percent of your total trip cost, though that can be influenced by several things. Your age The cost of the trip The length of your trip and destination The amount of coverage selected The number of travelers covered under the policy Travel Insurance Worldwide Service and Claims Information. It's easy to manage your travel insurance. Berkshire Hathaway Travel Protection (BHTP) has made it easy to manage your travel insurance. You can: Is travel insurance worth it? Yes. Things happen that are out of your control. Whether it's your flight being cancelled or delayed to a family emergency. Life happens and that's how travel insurance can help. Plan for the unexpected with a travel insurance policy so you can rest easy knowing you're covered. Travel Insurance FAQs What travel insurance plans are available?BHTB offers AirCare (flight only) and 3 main plans: ExactCare Value, ExactCare, and ExactCare Extra. ExactCare Value provides great traveling insurance coverage for budget minded travelers. You can rest easy knowing you're covered for things like trip cancellation, trip interruption, and medical expenses. The main difference is the maximum amount that will be covered. ExactCare and ExactCare Extra's insurance cover the same things as ExactCare Value and add coverage for missed connections and accidental death & dismemberment. The overall amount covered is also increased for each plan respectively. Is there travel insurance that can cover my vehicle while traveling to Mexico?Your US auto insurance policy won't cover your vehicle when you drive into Mexico. We're here to help you find the Mexico car insurance you need to insure your car. How can I save money on my next trip?No one wants to overpay things. We're here to help. Check out our 5 ways to save your money on your next family vacation. What factors impact the cost of travel insurance?There are many factors that can affect the cost of travel insurance. Here's some examples: Your age Where you're going Number of days you're traveling Cost of your overall trip Coverage you pick Number of people covered under your policy and more How Can I Get Travel Insurance?To get GEICO travel insurance, visit the GEICO website and navigate to our travel insurance section. There, you can review the different plans available, which include coverage for trip cancellations, medical emergencies, lost luggage, and more. You can get a quote by entering your travel details and personal information. When Is It Too Late to Buy Travel Insurance?It's generally too late to buy travel insurance once your trip has started, or a loss has occurred. Most policies must be purchased before departure, with some providers allowing purchases until the day before. How Much Travel Insurance Do I Need?The amount of travel insurance you need depends on your trip cost, destination, duration, and personal risk factors, such as your age and health. In general, you should aim for coverage that includes medical expenses, trip cancellations, lost luggage, and emergency evacuation. You may want to consider higher limits for expensive or high-risk destinations. How Can I Add Travel Insurance After Booking a Flight?To add travel insurance through GEICO after booking a flight and before travel begins, visit the GEICO website, navigate to our travel insurance section, and apply for coverage. You can also call our dedicated customer service team for assistance. If you choose to get a rate quote or service your policy online, you will be taken to the Berkshire Hathaway Travel Protection website which is owned by Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance Company, not GEICO. Travel Insurance is underwritten by Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance Company; NAIC #22276. Any information that you provide directly to Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance Company on its website is subject to the privacy policy posted on their website, which you should read before proceeding. GEICO assumes no responsibility for their privacy practices or your use of their website. ExactCare is provided through Berkshire Hathaway Global Insurance Services, LLC. ExactCare and AirCare are underwritten by Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance Company. Both coverages are secured through the GEICO Insurance Agency, LLC. Benefits may vary by jurisdiction. Please contact a representative to confirm availability. Please note:
