Web Courses Defined ECC offers several types of web courses. Please consider the requirements and demands of each type of web course before enrolling. Lecture with Remote Instruction Courses will meet as scheduled in a classroom or lab space with instructor utilizing a live stream format to deliver course materials from a remote location. Live streaming is real-time (synchronous) distance learning utilizing a web-based platform to deliver course content during a regularly scheduled course meeting time, e.g., Zoom. Distance Learning Refers to instructional methods utilized to deliver course material in place of an on-campus experience. Tools utilized to enhance the distance learning experience may include but are not limited to email, private social media group, publisher produced software, Zoom, recorded or live lectures, or the Canvas course site. Web Online Course instruction is delivered in a distance-learning format that is not primarily in real time (asynchronous); students will typically follow a schedule and be required to meet published deadlines. Attendance may be required for course orientation, course assessments, or course delivery of material that may or may not be regularly scheduled. The possible meeting frequency, location, and time will be available in the course syllabus. Other course requirements, i.e., observations, internships, interviews, etc., will still require student attendance, as appropriate and as indicated. Web online courses are recommended for students who desire a distance learning experience. In addition to the necessary technical skills required for distance learning, students should be highly motivated, self-disciplined and have the ability to learn independently. Students will need access to high-speed internet outside of class time, either at home or on campus. Web Online with Live Stream Live streaming is real-time (synchronous) distance learning utilizing a web-based platform to deliver course content during a regularly scheduled course meeting time, e.g., Zoom. web online with live stream is an option for students who desire distance learning but prefer the structure of regular meeting times and live interaction. In addition to the necessary technical skills required for distance learning, students should be highly motivated, self-disciplined and have the ability to learn independently. Students will need access to high-speed internet outside of class time, either at home or on campus. Web Hybrid Courses of this type are a blend of traditional (face-to-face) and non-real-time (asynchronous) distance learning. The number of hours per week the class meets face-to-face is reduced by approximately half; the remainder of the course is taught via distance learning. Students will be required to attend face-to-face class meetings on a regular, scheduled basis; the class meeting schedule will be published in advance. A web hybrid course does not reduce the time required of students to be successful. Students will meet many of the course objectives using Canvas or another distance-learning tool. Web hybrid is an option for students who desire distance learning while also retaining a more traditional learning experience. In addition to the necessary technical skills required for online learning, students should be highly motivated, self-disciplined and have the ability to learn independently. Students will need access to high-speed internet outside of class time, either at home or on campus. Web Hybrid with Live Stream Courses of this type are a blend of lecture (in-person) and real-time (synchronous) live stream. This course will meet approximately half of the time in person following a regular schedule. The remaining course time will meet via live stream involving a web-based platform to deliver course content in real-time (synchronously) during the regularly scheduled course meeting times. A web hybrid with live stream course does not reduce the time required of students to be successful. Students will meet many of the course objectives using Canvas or another distance-learning tool. Web hybrid with live stream is an option for students who desire a distance-learning environment structured with regular meeting times and live interaction. In addition to the necessary technical skills required for online learning, students should be highly motivated, self-disciplined and have the ability to learn independently. Students will need access to high-speed internet, either at home or on campus (or satellite location), outside of class time.
