Marketplace for Financial Firms for Sale Exclusive Listings of Financial Advisory Practices Find an RIA or a financial firm for sale in our simple and easy-to-use online marketplace – myCompass. Below is a simple summary of each listing on myCompass, including Active listings, Coming Soon, Pending, as well as recently sold practices. Login to myCompass to view more details and complete a buyer profile so you can express interest. Active Practices for Sale Sold Practices Active Practices for Sale Sold Practices Be the First to Know When New Seller Listings Go Live. Get exclusive alerts on new RIA and advisor practices for sale, plus expert insights to help you act fast when the right opportunity appears. Thinking of Buying an RIA? Book a discovery call to learn how we can help your firm sell for more with less stress. 90% of Buyers Don’t Qualify We Help You Become the 10%. Download the Practice Acquisition Checklist. Created by SRG’s M&A experts, this three-part guide walks you through the early stages of your acquisition strategy, internal preparation, seller goal setting, and sourcing strategies that get results. Buy Smarter with Resources for Financial Advisors Explore more below for resources specific to Employment Agreements – and if you’re looking for even more guidance, visit our full Resource Library. The RIA & Advisor Dissolution Playbook Dissolving your RIA is rarely simple. It requires thoughtful coordination across legal, tax, compliance, and client transition steps. Each stage, from initial exit planning and regulatory filings to employee communications, financial wind-down, and document retention, brings unique requirements and potential risks. Download Your Playbook 10 Tips for Selling Your RIA Selling your Registered Investment Advisor (RIA) firm is a major decision—one that goes far beyond the financial transaction. As a firm owner, you need to think about preserving your legacy, ensuring a smooth transition for your clients and employees, and finding the right buyer to carry your business forward. Read Article Here The Sellers Playbook | What to Know Before You Let Go Learn what it takes to successfully sell your financial advisory practice. This session walks through the key steps to prepare your business, navigate the sale, transition clients and staff, and avoid common mistakes. Whether you’re planning to exit soon or just getting started, this webinar offers practical guidance to help you plan with confidence. Watch the Webinar Here Selling My RIA as a Financial Advisor, Prioritizing Client Fit Over Highest Offer John Gunn was the Managing Principal of John L. Gunn & Associates, LLC, a Portland-based Registered Investment Advisory firm, prior to selling to Mainsail Financial Group. In his practice, John advised high-net-worth individuals, foundations, and pension plans, bringing decades of business experience and a reputation for excellence. He has been recognized as a Five Star Wealth Manager in Portland Monthly Magazine and served as a long-time member of the American Institute of CPAs National Financial Planning Insights Panel. Read John Gunn's Article
