Online Graphic Design Course Get Designer Ready. Live classes & flexible study for total beginners, design dabblers & fledgling freelancers. Get industry-ready and kickstart your creative career. 4.9/5 ⭐ from 11k+ grads Celebrate 30 years of Shillington and save £2,500. G̶B̶P̶ ̶£̶9̶,̶9̶5̶0̶ GBP £7,450 * Currency subject to change in conversion rates AUD 15,100 USD 9,970 EUR 8,510 Is now a good time to become a Designer? Join a free Info Session to get a clear view of the skills that matter in 2026 and beyond. Straight talking. No filler. Just what today’s creative world expects from you. SECURE YOUR SPOT - ENROL NOW SECURE YOUR SPOT - ENROL NOW SECURE YOUR SPOT - ENROL NOW SECURE YOUR SPOT - ENROL NOW SECURE YOUR SPOT - ENROL NOW SECURE YOUR SPOT - ENROL NOW SECURE YOUR SPOT - ENROL NOW SECURE YOUR SPOT - ENROL NOW SECURE YOUR SPOT - ENROL NOW SECURE YOUR SPOT - ENROL NOW SECURE YOUR SPOT - ENROL NOW SECURE YOUR SPOT - ENROL NOW Next start dates Filter controls Filtered items January Start 12.01.26 — 10.04.26 April Start 27.04.26 — 31.07.26 September Start 21.09.26 — 18.12.26 Course outcome You’ll leave with a professional portfolio, a personal brand and the confidence to speak about your work. Most importantly, you’ll leave ready to land a job, freelance, or launch your own thing. *Based on LinkedIn data from a sample of 5,000 grads. Real careers See how grads turned their Shillington experience into creative careers they love. Meet teachers! Hosted by our teaching team, join this event to discover Shillington’s unique approach to design education and have all your questions answered. Why choose Shillington? Make work like this Design your future as a Graphic Designer Graduate with a standout portfolio. In your final module, you’ll refine your top projects, develop your personal brand and create a portfolio and website that reflect your voice, vision and strengths. Immersive studio experience Real skills for the real world. This isn’t just about learning software. You’ll be part of a collaborative studio experience that mirrors the design industry. Live feedback, real briefs and constant support from industry pros. Your course journey We refresh our course every 3 months, so you’re learning the latest design trends, tools and best practices. Learn to think and work like a designer. You’ll build creative confidence and develop the design thinking that helps you solve real-world problems and create bold, original work. Learn from real designers Your teachers are working professionals. Creative directors, brand specialists, UX designers and more. They’ve been where you want to go, and they’ll help you get there with support, critique and real insight. Choose your pace There are two ways to study at Shillington. Both options ensure accountability and live learning whilst providing the flexibility you might need. It's the same course, just two ways. Full-time 3 month course. Learn like you're working in a real design studio, five days a week, immersing yourself fully in graphic design. Commit yourself 100% to learning Monday-Friday and start your creative career as quickly as possible. Part-time 9 month course. The same studio-style learning spread over two nights per week. No need to quit your job. Built for busy people who still want accountability when they learn. A faster, smarter alternative to university that gets you industry-ready on your terms. Choose a schedule that works for your life. Monday — Friday Tuesday & Wednesdays Secure your place Filter controls Filtered items January Start 12.01.26 — 10.04.26 April Start 27.04.26 — 31.07.26 September Start 21.09.26 — 18.12.26 FAQs Got questions? Let’s clear them up. Find out if Shillington is right for you. Let’s talk
