Financial accounting information must be assembled and reported objectively. When you rely on virtual accounting services, you have the right to be assured that your financial accounting information is free from bias and inconsistency, whether deliberate or not. For this reason, financial accounting relies on certain accounting best practices and standards called "Generally Accepted Accounting Principles" (GAAP). GAAP compliance derives from tradition. In any report of your virtual accounting information (audit, compilation, review, etc.), the preparer/auditor must indicate whether or not the information contained within the statements complies with GAAP. Here is a general list of GAAP compliance principles: Tax and Audit-Ready Financial Data At AccountingDepartment.com, your accounting is done properly every day. Each month, your financial accounting data is reviewed by your AccountingDepartment.com controller, financial reports are presented and explained and your books are closed for the period. At year end, your virtual accounting records are up-to-date and ready for use in preparation of income tax returns. Your AccountingDepartment.com team is available to work with your tax preparer or independent auditor throughout the year to ensure your financial accounting data is presented correctly for your reporting needs. Keep in mind, AccountingDepartment.com does not specifically provide GAAP-compliant accounting alone—but our clear and consistent processes are easily aligned with your other partners for GAAP compliance. AccountingDepartment.com carries professional liability (E&O) Insurance and employee dishonesty coverage. AccountingDepartment.com provides accounting services, bookkeeping services, and controller services, as well as advisory services, to businesses nationwide. We do not provide tax services, including but not limited to tax preparation, tax law, tax compliance, tax filing, and tax planning services. Please consult your CPA and tax advisors for tax consulting. By providing a telephone number and submitting via form on our website, you are consenting to be contacted by SMS text message. Message & data rates may apply. Message frequency may vary. Reply Help for more information. You can reply STOP to opt-out of further messaging.
