Best headphones under $50 for 2025 In this list of the 13 best headphones under $50 , we want to show you that getting great-sounding headphones on a budget is easier than ever. While it's true that there are also a lot of cheap headphones out there you want to avoid, there are also some excellent options. They offer tremendous value and can compete with far more expensive models without damaging effects on your wallet. In this buyer's guide, I want to list only products I would consider if I spent under $50 in 2025. Editors Choice (in Each Category) 13 Best Headphones Under $50 2025 1. Ijoy Ultra Pros: The sleek fresh design looks great Noise Cancelling technology 35-hour battery life (used wireless) Cons: Only 2 color options Not available in brick-and-mortar stores Why We Like It The recently refreshed iJoy Hypnotic stands out as one of the best product updates in the headphone space. iJoy got lucky and was popular with the original model (which is why you already see so many positive reviews on Amazon - *hint… they were reviews for the old model that wasn’t great but was cheap.). The new model, however, is perfect, features rich, and packs a punch at under $50 RRP. The battery life in our testing was excellently used with Bluetooth 5.0. They delivered 33 hours of playback at 50% volume, close to their claimed 35 hours. I found the sound fun and punchy, with bass that extended well and a hint of warmth that made them versatile enough to sound good with many musical genres. The ANC isn’t as strong as the Sony WH-1000XM5 , but that’s to be expected as they are ten times the price. The Hypnotic is good enough to reduce background noise and make traveling less stressful. My favorite thing about this headphone, though, is the aesthetic redesign. It is a sleek-looking modern design that sits nicely on the head without looking comically oversized—a solid choice for our test winner. Verdict: It’s unbelievable how good cheap headphones have gotten at the iJoy hypnotic are the most advanced in 2025. 2. Superlux HD681 Pros: Excellent sound Great for Gaming Very Comfortable pads Cons: Open Back headphones leak sound Designed for home or office use Why We Like It We discovered the budget brilliance that is the Superlux HD681 Evo a few years ago . Since then, they have gone up in price to just above 50 dollars. However, the HD681 originals have also been kept on and for good reason. Few headphones reach legendary status, but along with the Koss, I think the HD681 deserves that place. Despite inflation and rising living costs, it still keeps this iconic budget headphone priced for the everyman. One of the most highly recommended headphones for those seeking audiophile sound without the exorbitant expense. The 681 is an incredible value for money and, in my opinion. Detailed and balanced with an insane amount of space and soundstage for a sub $50 headphone is definitely common. To achieve that, Superlux doesn’t seem to have cut a lot of corners, and there are lots of aftermarket mods you can do to rectify most of the shortfalls, like the cable or earpads. But, out of the box they just work and work well, a great headphone for musicians, gamers, and producers alike, as along with its good sound they just last and last. (I have had my own original pair for over 10 years now). Verdict: A great neutral and open-sounding headphone that is perfect for music production and gaming. 3. Koss Porta Pro Pros: Legendary Design Compact & Foldable One of the best-sounding headphones under $50 Cons: Open Back design leaks sound Headband can catch on hair Why We Like It: The small size and great sound make the Porta Pro by Koss the winner of the best portable headphones under $50. It is a true darling of the audiophile world, with the sound being praised and these headphones being used regularly by Hifi enthusiasts with ridiculously expensive DAC & DAP’s . The Koss Porta Pro is a legendary headphone and one of the only sub-$ $200 headphones to feature on our list of the best audiophile headphones . They have been around for over 30 years, yet they still manage to be one of the best-selling headphones on the planet. Compact form factor and next-to-indestructible design are one thing, but the sound is the star. You get a lovely, balanced sound with lots of detail and a crisp clarity you don't get from earphones under $50. If you are feeling adventurous, many mods for the Koss can elevate them to an even higher level for little to no extra cost. The retro style is also a top reason that these headphones sell well. Instantly recognizable for those in the know, they look like anything else on the market. Verdict: The best audiophile headphone under $50. The sound is remarkable and seriously something to be considered if sound quality is your priority. 4. Audio Technica M20x Pros: Excellent build quality Good for Isolation Best under $50 for music production Cons: It sounds a little flat for casual listening Price can vary depending on the vendor Why We Like It: Ok, so the retail price of the ATH-M20x in 2025 has now crept above 50 dollars, but you can often find them in deals around the holidays and black fridays, etc, so be on the lookout. The M20x is the little brother of the massively popular ATH-M50x . So much of the DNA of the more expensive model spills into this budget headphone that they are pretty hard to beat as a set of all-rounders. Build quality is exceptional for this price, and the sound is clean and tight with a good, solid punch to the low end. They are designed to be used primarily as a set of budget studio monitors, and as such, they are made to last. Style-wise, these are on point, and while they are pretty big, the low-profile design means they are suitable for portable use at a push. However, I recommend you buy these headphones if you want to get into music production or podcasting and don’t want to spend a lot of money on headphones. These do the job and do it well. I also want to add that there is a new Bluetooth version on the market that has all the features of this headphone, but can be used wired or wireless. Verdict: A great studio headphone if you can find them for less than $50 5. Anker Soundcore Life Q20 Pros: Ultra Portable foldable design Good Noise Cancellation Built-in volume and playback buttons Cons: Very slightly outside our budget Why We Like It: The Soundcore by Anker Life Q20 sits just tantalizingly out with the $50 budget we set for this list, but we have included it because you can regularly find them renewed on Amazon or with a small discount that aligns them with our target. With that, you get one of the best budget headphones under $100, and it’s from a trusted brand name like Anker. The headphones are feature-packed with the latest technology, such as ANC, Bluetooth 5.0, Bass Up enhancement, 40 hours of battery life, and quick charging via USB-C. The sound is really good and the best-performing wireless model on our test regarding fidelity. I liked that it displayed good clarity and balance as standard but could also enhance the low end via the Bass Up technology developed by Anker. This makes it a versatile headphone and great for commuting. However, those looking to be compatible with the Anker Soundcore App will have to spend a little more than $50 to get the Soundcore Life Q30 because the software does not yet support the Q20 headphone. Verdict: These headphones are worth stretching your budget for. 6. Monoprice BT300 ANC Pros: Excellent budget headphones for travellers Hi Res audio codecs Great noise cancelling technology Cons: Les premium that $100+ headphones Available only in black Why We Like It: It’s amazing how far we have come. You can now get APTX Bluetooth 5.0+ headphones with built-in noise-canceling technology for such a low price. Just a few years ago, I wouldn’t have dreamed of recommending all this tech for under $50. Headphones were just so bad, and the tech usually didn’t work. Now, I'm thankful to say it does. I reviewed this headphone from Monoprice just a few months ago and used it on a few international flights. I was nothing but impressed. Everything just worked as it should. Sure, you are going to get more refinement on the more expensive models out there, but the question is, are those headphones that much better to justify the price? Im getting less and less sure. 7. JLab Studio Pro Pros: Extremely comfortable due to being lightweight Some really funky designs Huge 50 hours of battery life Good build quality Cons: Lacks noise canceling technology The biggest surprise of 2025 is the arrival of the Jlab Studio Pro to our list. You don’t need to go for the crazy tropical print above (there are standard black, blue, and gray options, too), but these are my favorite and perfect for going away this summer. Battery life is a very generous 50 hours, so you could get away with charging once a week with moderate listening, and when you do come to charge you can do so via USB-C. They are very comfortable headphones thanks partly to the lightweight construction and the ample foam earpads that cushion the points of contact. The construction is well done; they look fantastic and are unlike anything else on the market. Top points to Jlab for being creative, and despite the omission of ANC on the headphones, it’s still one to consider this year. Verdict: Funky, stylish and outstanding battery life. 8. Edifier W800BT Pros: Simple, cheap headphones with good analytical sound for the price. The closed-back design provides isolation Good value and well featured Cons: Simple styling on the faceplate will be decisive Why We Like It I broke my XM4 recently while traveling, and not wanting to buy a full-priced headphone on the go when I had the Sony XM5 at home, I picked up the Edifier W800BT. I have reviewed Edifier speakers in the past and knew they represent good value, so when I saw the 800s were only $50, I really didn’t hesitate in picking them up. Im glad they did because while they wouldn’t compete with my Sony’s, I was impressed every time I used them that I was getting so many (Working) features for so little cash. These would make a great set of headphones for the office due to the closed-back design offering above-average isolation from external noise. They are very well made, and the comfort also won us over, thanks to the generous padding. The sound is smooth and refreshingly crisp; the W800 offers more than most headphones in pushing forward the clarity of the midrange and extending into the top notes. This makes them very clear and accurate-sounding headphones for the price, ones that are devoid of too much additional coloration of the sound. The inclusion of Bluetooth 5.4 meant there was no discernible lag when watching movies on my flights, and the strength of the noise cancellation was up there with the Soundcore Q20, which I consider to be the best in class. Verdict: Another simple headphone with good sound and lots of useful features. Oh, and the build quality is good too. 9. JBL Quantum 100 - Best Cheap Gaming Headset Pros: Gaming Headset with built-in mic Nice styling and well made Affordable Cons: It lacks the soundstage found on more expensive headsets Why We Like It: They are the only gaming headset on our list of best headphones under $50 and are an excellent value for money. If you don't have much money for gaming, spending less on headphones and more on your computer and peripherals will give you a better experience. With the Quantum 100, you aren't missing out on much other than materials and design. This headset does the basics well with clear and flat sound and a built-in mic that sounded pretty decent. We also found they were very comfortable to wear over long sessions due to the large, well-padded earpads. Verdict: Right now, this is the best gaming headset you can buy under $50 10. Skullcandy Riff Pros: Fashion-forward on-ear headphones Strong Bluetooth reception Very well built. Cons: Dated Bluetooth technology Why We Like It: Usually, I wouldn't go for a set of fashionable headphones. I always prioritize sound first and then styling, so what about finding something that looks good and doesn't cost the world? The Skullcandy Riff in that burgundy color fits the bill for me (there are lots of colorways to choose from). I liked the simple, clean lines and warm yet fun sound signature. You get 12 hours of playback from a single charge, and despite being all plastic, they feel remarkably well put together. The only thing we didn't like during the testing process was that the Bluetooth standard is a bit behind the competition at 4.2, when the others are already well past 5.0. Verdict: Really funky design and good build quality 11. Samson SR850 Pros: Extremely impressive balanced sound Cheap mods can take them to the next level Cons: The design feels dated Why We Like It: The Samson SR850 is one of the first headphones I ever reviewed, and today, they still stand the test of time for budget audiophiles. The beautifully clear and detailed sound of these competitors to the Superlux headphones adorned this list's top. They are open back, so the sound is also spacious, and you can do a few simple mods to tune them to your taste. Studio monitor styling is excellent and super comfortable to wear throughout a long listening session. Verdict: Amazing sound that can get even better with the simple 2p modification. 12. Sony WH-CH520 Pros: Clean design and lots of color options Great for travel Insane battery life Cons: None for price Why We Like It: Im a huge fan of the Sony WH-CH520, and it’s a headphone I recommend often to people seeking good quality long long-lasting budget headphones. These are on-ear and have a very sleek and streamlined design, such as the yoke system being integrated into the earcups and the clean transition into the pads. With that and the small size, they just look so good on the head and come in lots of color options to allow users to express their personal style. In-built volume and pairing controls are tactile physical buttons, so no janky touch-based system is nice, and the battery life is insane. Sony claims 50 hours of playback from a charge, but as we all know by now, that will depend on your listening habits. In my own tests, I got just under 45 hours between charges with volume around 70% which is really impressive when compared to the other budget headphones on this list. Finally, the sound is a punchy and energetic tuning with good low-end performance, showing both deep bass and enough refinement to not get sloppy even when you push the volume. The midrange is smooth, not the most detailed, but it’s got nice warmth, making vocals engaging, whether it’s male or female singers. The highs Sony took the wise choice to keep them dialed back, so you don’t find yourself in a situation where the treble peaks aggressively. Overall, an absolute banger of a headphone that again feels like it will just last forever. 13. Sennheiser HD206 Pros: A long-lasting dependable headphone Classic Design Neutral sound works well for monitoring and music production Cons: Padding will need replacing eventually as its prone to cracking over time Why We Like It The Sennheiser HD206 design has been around for years and is an entry-level staple headphone to the Sennheiser Brand . This is another headphone that is designed as a workhorse. It’s meant to be a cheap option for students, musicians, and studios who put a lot of wear and tear on their headphones. The sound is flat and neutral, and the comfort is acceptable. There is also a running joke that when the world ends, all that will be left are cockroaches and Sennheiser HD206, so I guess that's a testament to their long-term durability. Verdict: A favorite among audiophiles that can be picked up in brick-and-mortar stores like Best Buy. Cheap Headphones Buyers Guide WHAT TO LOOK FOR? As I mentioned above, there are many options for headphones in the sub $50 category. It seems to be the price that most people are comfortable with paying, but that doesn't mean they should settle for whatever is cheap. Price at this market point does not reflect the sound or build quality. Some headphone manufacturers can sell their headphones cheaply because of economies of scale. For example, Sony and JVC move many headphones in this price range, so production costs are less because of the competition due to large batch orders at the factories. On the other hand, small companies that grow through word of mouth and have no marketing budget, that raise the price, can also be competitive. It's tough to ignore the rise of the Chinese HiFi market and talk about this a lot here at Audiophile On . In the past decade, generic brand Chinese companies have moved from producing low-quality tat to some outstanding value audio products such as headphones, earphones, and DAPs (Digital Audio Players) . With low production and design costs in China, they have become a real threat to the big brand audio companies and can offer cheap headphones that compete with those many times their price. As a side note, if you are curious about what audiophile headphones are and the features you get when spending a lot more money, you can read our list of the best audiophile headphones. You might find it interesting that, despite the list's focus being on the best-sounding headphones in the world, one of our budget models from this article also makes an appearance in there. AVOID BUYING CHEAP HEADPHONES PURELY FOR FASHION The biggest mistake I see when buying cheap headphones is purchasing the one that looks the best. I agree that this is important as the style of the headphones can match your style. There is, after all, a reason why the Beats headphones come in so many different colors. However, if these are something you will use daily, there are three other areas to consider when purchasing new headphones. Comfort, Build Quality, and Sound Quality. At under $50, you will have to make sacrifices in each area, but it tends to work out best in the long run if you consider what you want from your headphones regarding performance and how you are most likely to use them. YOU DON'T ALWAYS NEED TO SHOP FOR KNOWN BRANDS As mentioned above, one of the most amazing things in audio advancement over the past few years is what's known as the "ChiFi" revolution (Chinese Hifi). Before, if you wanted quality, you would look for brands such as Sony, Bose, JVC, etc. Things have changed, and many companies have come out of China offering bang for your buck. Budget headphones are better than ever. These Chinese companies offer incredible-sounding headphones at prices we could only dream of just a few years ago. Therefore, people in the know who are immersed in the audiophile headphone world have hunted high and low to find the best options for you under $50. Sometimes, a sub $50 headphone from a relatively unknown company can sound better than a set of $200+ headphones from established brand names. OVER-EAR HEADPHONES VS ON-EAR HEADPHONES We will cover both on-ear and over-ear headphones for under $50 in this category. The reason to choose one over the other comes down to user preference. For example, if you want to use your headphones exclusively at home or in the office, you may be better with the added comfort of over-ear full-size headphones. However, if you travel a lot or are limited in space, you may prefer the more compact design of an on-ear headphone. We have found that both headphones' styles can sound very good during our testing over the past few years. As a result, we would generally advise you to once again look at how you intend to use your headphones and choose the one that best suits your needs. Advantages of Over-ear Headphones Usually more comfortable with less pressure on the outer ear The larger size means the ability to house more significant drivers Tend to isolate better from environmental noise Advantages of On-Ear Headphones Usually more compact Lighter due to less material used in construction Less susceptible to the build-up of heat around the ears.
