Arranging furniture can be a daunting design decision, but the layout is crucial to a room's comfort and function. These common scenarios will teach you the basics of furniture arranging so you can maximize every space. No matter if your rooms are big or small, having the right furniture arrangement will make them more enjoyable. Check out our layout examples, plus tricks for living rooms, family rooms, bedrooms, and dining rooms. Knowing how to arrange furniture can help you navigate how a room will be used. Furniture Arrangement with a Focal Point To arrange your living room furniture effectively, orient seating around a beautiful view that your room offers, like a television or wide windows. If you need an artificial focal point for the room, try hanging a large piece of art or displaying cherished items on a console. If you're stuck deciding whether to prioritize the fireplace or TV, you can mount the TV above the fireplace to enjoy both at the same time. Family Room Furniture Arrangements with Storage Family rooms double as convenient storage hubs. Use a smart furniture layout to include cabinets, drop zones, and drawers. In smaller rooms without much space, use freestanding pieces; opt for wall-to-wall built-ins in larger spaces. Don't forget to add storage near the TV for all of your media essentials. Symmetrical Living Room Furniture Arrangement Ensure there's enough space for foot traffic and a drop area when it comes to arranging living room furniture. For an eye-pleasing, symmetrical setup, place key seating pieces facing each other near the fireplace. Place end tables at both ends of the sofa for added convenience. Balance the visual weight of the sofa with paired chairs to maximize seating. This layout accommodates guests while maintaining a chill, cozy vibe. Floating Furniture Arrangement With no free walls and a central fireplace, arrange seating in the center of the room. Position chairs and sofas facing each other to invite conversation between guests. Use a plush rug and large coffee table to anchor the setup. Surround the area with extra seating and storage cabinets at the room's edges. Especially in the winter months, this fireplace-centered layout creates a cozy atmosphere. Living Room Furniture Arrangement for Conversation A furniture arrangement that encourages conversation is ideal for rooms where you frequently entertain or relax with friends and family. For face-to-face chats, place seating no more than 8 feet apart. In a large living room, use furniture to create comfortable islands. Face two sofas in the center of a room, and place a group of chairs and side tables at one end to create a separate conversation area. Throw pillows and blankets invite guests to get comfortable. Furniture Arrangements for Small Living Rooms Arranging furniture in a small living room can be a tough task. However, there are plenty of tricks to make even boxy or narrow spaces work for you. Browse these tips to learn how a small living room can be both practical and comfy for your whole family. Dimensions for Living Room Furniture Arrangements One of the secrets to learning how to arrange furniture is making sure you leave enough space between pieces. Allow 30 inches between furniture that you need to be able to walk around, and maintain 14 to 18 inches between a coffee table and sofa so drinks are within reaching distance. This rule still applies when planning a large living room furniture arrangement, because if a piece of furniture is too far away, it might look like it's floating in the room without purpose. Furniture Arranging Ideas for Accent Tables The key to a good furniture arrangement is in details like side tables and coffee tables. Consider your room size and furniture arrangement when choosing the right coffee table. Use round pedestal tables as side tables between chairs and sofas. The curves of round tables make them easier to navigate around. When space is tight, use nesting tables for flexible use when needed. How to Arrange Living Room Furniture Around Lighting A key factor in the overall mood of your room, lighting plays a big part when planning how to arrange living room furniture. Windows let in ample natural light, while chandeliers, sconces, and lamps keep the room bright at night. Arrange living room furniture near light sources to allow ample brightness for reading, conversation, and more. Improve lighting by installing in-floor electrical outlets to service floating furniture arrangements. Furniture Arranging Ideas for Irregular Rooms In an irregular room with one wide traffic lane, consider using the perimeter of the room for a computer desk and storage console. Choose chairs with casters so they're easy to move. Float the furniture to focus on the fireplace and the television. Ensure that the living room furniture is arranged near both the corner fireplace and television. TV Room Furniture Arrangements When deciding how to arrange living room furniture with a TV, prioritize comfort and accessibility. Place the television so the screen faces away from the sunlight. The viewing distance for a standard TV is 8 to 12 feet, and the best viewing angle is not more than 30 degrees. For traffic flow, create paths that flow behind viewers and not between them and the screen. Bedroom Furniture Arranging Tips When planning a furniture arrangement for the bedroom, consider the size of your bed. Allow at least 2 feet on either side to allow for space to make the bed. Avoid placing the bed within 3 feet of the door; otherwise, the bed becomes a roadblock. Furniture Arranging Ideas for Beds It's possible to use a larger bed when arranging a small bedroom if you don't need a lot of storage furniture. Beyond the bed's placement, you should also consider the visual weight of your headboard. If the bed is slightly large for the room, opt for a visually lighter headboard, such as one that features metal scrollwork. A solid headboard consumes more visual space, and taller, heavier headboards work best in bigger bedrooms or bedrooms with tall ceilings. Comfortable Bedroom Furniture Arrangement To arrange a small bedroom with big furniture, you'll have to share a little. For an extra cozy space, place a bench at the foot of the bed or a small-scale armchair in a corner for bedroom seating. Consider placing a chair next to a bedside table, which can be shared by the chair and bed. If there isn't room next to the nightstand, pair the chair with a small garden stool, which will serve as a small table without occupying much space. Bedroom Furniture Arrangement with Windows When arranging bedroom furniture in a long and narrow space, face the bed toward the window to make the most of the view. Include a desk or dressing table, chair, and mirror opposite the doorway. Place a bench or a pair of stools at the end of the bed for seating. Flank the bed with nightstands or nestle the bed into a built-in storage unit that includes two cabinet towers and a cabinet that bridges the head of the bed to create an alcove. Square Bedroom Furniture Arrangement Ideas Determine how to arrange bedroom furniture to get the most of your personal space. In a square bedroom, designate the bed as the focal point so the room feels grounded. Stretch storage up the wall with a freestanding armoire. Pair matching small-scale dressers to use as nightstands. Position the bed on an oversize rug that extends at least 2 feet on either side and at the foot of the bed. Creative Bedroom Furniture Arranging Ideas Don't be afraid to give your bed a slightly unusual placement, such as in front of a window, if it will help you maximize space. Every space is a little bit different, so it's important to play around with arranging bedroom furniture until you find the optimal layout. In this small bedroom, two stools sit at the foot of the bed instead of a large bench, which would take up too much space in the traffic flow. Small Bedroom Furniture Arrangement In a small bedroom, use fewer furniture pieces of a slightly larger scale to maximize floor space. Opt for tall pieces, such as an armoire, that add volume in a smaller footprint. A small bedroom furniture arrangement should be planned with the essentials in mind first, and then add extras, such as a bench or desk, as they fit. How to Arrange Dining Room Furniture Consider how you use your dining room, such as for family-style meals or buffet-style serving, to determine the ideal furniture arrangement. Make furniture choices that support your needs, and place furniture in a room-appropriate layout. If, for example, you prefer buffet-style serving, a dining room furniture arrangement with plenty of walking space in-between the chairs and the buffet table is necessary. Furniture Arranging Ideas for Dining Tables Circular tables with pedestal bases let diners easily see everyone at the table and are suitable for tight dining spaces or square rooms. Rectangular tables limit seating, but they work well in rectangular dining rooms and come in a variety of lengths and widths. Oval tables with added leaves also work well in rectangular dining rooms and offer flexibility by adapting to small gatherings or large. Furniture Arranging Ideas for Rectangular Dining Room In a rectangular dining space with no free walls, mix furniture pieces like chairs, benches, and settees for an eclectic look. For the best dining room furniture arrangement, duplicate the room shape with the shape of the table to maximize seating. For example, a rectangular table with the same proportions as the dining room will make the most of the space. Include storage, such as cabinets or bookcases, on the perimeter. Define the dining space with a rug that contrasts with the flooring. Large Dining Room Furniture Arrangement In an oversized dining space, opt for a table that preserves open space for other uses. For example, don't buy a huge table with seating for 20 when you'll only ever need seating for 12. Add storage that will accommodate all the activities that take place in the room. When choosing chairs, select models that can also easily be brought up to the table for extra dining seating. Anchor the secondary seating areas with lamps and occasional tables. A good living room/dining room combo furniture arrangement looks natural and allows for meals and entertainment to coexist seamlessly. Dining Room Furniture Arranging Tips For an optimal dining room furniture arrangement, be sure to allow a minimum of 36 inches from the table to the wall on all sides. Position the table so traffic flows smoothly around it and chairs have plenty of space to slide out. If space allows, you can even slip a sofa along a wall in your dining room for more casual conversation post-dinner. Measurements for Dining Room Furniture Arranging When determining how many chairs you can fit around your table, allow for a width of 20 to 24 inches and a depth of 15 inches per place setting. You should also plan to leave at least 6 inches between chairs. This furniture arranging tip will keep guests comfortable and not too close. Functional Dining Room Furniture Arrangement Make the most of your dining room furniture arrangement with a wall of shelves that can provide multi-purpose storage. Store essentials for the dining room's alternative uses, such as office supplies, games, and crafts, or dining extras such as china, linens, and barware. If you don't want the contents of the cubbies showing, string a curtain across the front of the shelving system or install a sliding barn door. Dining Room Furniture Arranging with Light Fixtures Choose and place lighting that adapts to the room's functions. For example, hang the chandelier with extra cord length so it can be adjusted for homework or dining. Use dimmer switches, lamps, and sconces to set the mood for the occasion.
