Affordable nutrition Sustainable concepts for affordable nutrition Everyone has a right to safe, high-quality foods. Our concepts for affordable, nutritionally-improved foods target very low-income families, particularly in developing countries. Malnutrition remains widespread around the globe. According to the World Health Organization, around 45% of deaths among children below the age of five are linked to undernutrition. In 2020, around 149 million under-fives were estimated to be affected by stunting. Poor nutrition also compromises the health of young women – the mothers of the next generation. Initiatives that both deliver a reliable supply of affordable, healthy and safe foods and make the most of all available raw materials are vital to break this cycle. Protein is typically the primary macronutrient that malnourished children and young women lack. This is where whey-based ingredients can make an important contribution to growth and development as a source of easily absorbed, high-quality proteins along with essential minerals such as calcium and carbohydrate in the form of lactose. Their functional properties also deliver the right taste, texture and stability to meet the needs of specific markets. The concepts We design our affordable nutrition concepts to enable food manufacturers in developing countries to make the best use of local milk and crops such as chickpeas, quinoa and papaya. Each concept has been developed through our involvement in collaborative projects, where we help to build models for sustainable food systems with external partners. These models and our knowledge are freely available to members of the SUN Business Network . SUSTAINABLE CONCEPTS Sustainable concepts GET IN TOUCH WITH ONE OF OUR EXPERTS Charlotte Sørensen Senior Project Manager * Our website contains information on different approvals of Kosher. Only products from our plants in Europe have the approval to use this logo. Please ask us for specific information on your product in regards to the Kosher approval. ** Our website contains information on different approvals of Halal. Our products certified from different halal agencies depend on location of the production site and the target market. Please ask for the specific information on your products in regards to the Halal approval. Get in touch
