Learn graphic design Shape your career in graphic design with online courses and programs. Gain creative problem-solving and communication skills while mastering design software used across industries. What is graphic design? Graphic design is the digital fusion of art and advertising. It's everywhere — from the signs guiding us through forest trails to the websites we browse and the logos corporations use. Graphic designers combine text and imagery to create visuals that convey messages, guide behavior, and promote products. These professionals have a keen eye for aesthetics, strong attention to detail, a knack for storytelling, and proficiency with design software. Browse online Certificates Find new interests and advance your career opportunities Stand out in your field Use the knowledge and skills you have gained to drive impact at work and grow your career. Learn at your own pace On your computer, tablet or phone, online courses make learning flexible to fit your busy life. Earn a valuable credential Showcase your key skills and valuable knowledge. Certificates Related Topics Why learn graphic design online? If you've ever wanted to demystify the magic behind dynamic digital ads, persuasive posters, beautiful billboards, or eye-popping packaging, consider learning graphic design online. Learning graphic design online can help you: Become a graphic designer: Build the technical skills and gain the experience you need to pursue a career in graphic design. Perfect your personal branding: Learn how to develop a compelling personal brand and create visually appealing logos, banners, and portfolio materials. Bring creative ideas to life: Acquire the practical skills graphic designers use to take ideas from dreams to reality. Learn valuable software skills: Get acquainted with key graphic design programs like Adobe InDesign, Adobe Illustrator, and Figma. What you will learn The contents of graphic design courses and programs vary by skill level and institution. However, you can expect to learn the following foundational skills in most graphic design courses and programs online: The basics of color theory Visual communication and storytelling Understanding a client's needs and target audience Typography fundamentals Accessibility in design Design thinking: Ideation, iteration, and communication Data visualization Delivering a visual presentation or pitch User experience (UX) and user interface (UI) design Human-centered design techniques Online graphic design courses vs. certificates vs. degrees Once you decide on your specialty and industry, you may choose a graphic design program that aligns with your skills, professional and academic background, and preferred learning style. Below, find pathways you can take to learn graphic design that span from online classes to advanced degree programs: Courses Online edX graphic design courses are short, flexible, self-paced programs that focus on specific topics. In 2–6 weeks, you can gain insight into the latest trends in graphic design or develop skills with industry-specific tools. edX offers free access to graphic design courses, with an optional upgrade that includes an official certificate of completion, graded assessments, and unlimited access to course materials. Professional certificates Professional certificate programs can help you build career-ready skills in graphic design in 2–10 months. These structured, multi-course programs combine practical training with foundational lessons. Upon completion, you'll earn a verified certificate from a leading university or institution. Executive education Executive education programs are for professionals who want to hone their leadership skills without pausing their careers. In 6–8 weeks, you'll take expert-led courses from top universities and explore industry case studies alongside fellow professionals. Degrees An online bachelor's degree program can provide you with a foundation in design principles and help you build a professional portfolio. Employers tend to prefer professionals with a bachelor's degree. According to CareerOneStop, 60% of graphic design professionals hold a bachelor of arts (BA) or a bachelor of fine arts (BFA) degree. If you want advanced design knowledge or wish to pursue senior-level roles, earning your master of fine arts (MFA) degree may be a good choice. You can earn a BA, BFA, or MFA degree online. Courses Professional certificates Degrees Executive education Cost Free access with the option to get a certificate of completion starting at $50 $500–$1,500 $10,000–$200,000 $2,500–$3,500 Duration 2–6 weeks 2–10 months 2–8 years 6–8 weeks Who it’s best for Learners who are curious about graphic design and want to learn new skills without investing significant time or money Learners who want to showcase their graphic design skills, add an official certificate to their résumé, and stand out when searching for career advancement opportunities Learners who want to pursue a full-time graphic design career and gain a deeper understanding of the discipline Aspiring leaders who want to become subject matter experts in a particular area of graphic design Jobs to consider after learning graphic design online Graphic designers create brand identities, enhance customer experience, and communicate ideas visually in the technology, education, fashion, healthcare, publishing, retail, and entertainment industries. As a graphic designer, you could specialize in: Branding Advertising Illustration UI and UX design Experiential design (exhibitions and wayfinding) Motion graphics and animation Packaging design Publication and typographic design Web design Consider some of the careers you can pursue with a degree in graphic design, with salary data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS): Graphic designer Graphic designers collaborate with copywriters to create visuals for marketing, publishing, and digital platforms. Experienced graphic designers may advance to senior designer or art director roles. Certifications in graphic design software may help you qualify for new career opportunities. Required education: Bachelor's degree in graphic design or fine arts BLS median annual salary (2024): $61,300 Art director Art directors shape and oversee the visual style of media projects, packaging, and publications by working with teams to achieve cohesive designs. In addition to traditional media, art directors may coordinate graphics for websites, mobile platforms, and digital content design. Required education: Bachelor's degree in art or design subjects BLS median annual salary (2024): $111,040 Digital designer Digital designers create visuals for digital media, apps, and websites. They are in demand in the tech and e-commerce industries, with opportunities to advance into UI/UX roles with certifications. Required education: Bachelor's degree in digital design, graphic arts, or web design BLS median annual salary (2024): $95,380 Desktop publisher Desktop publishers design print and digital page layouts, often collaborating with other teams. Additional certifications in design-related areas may increase job opportunities. Required education: Associate's degree in graphic design or graphic communications BLS median annual salary (2024): $53,620 Learn graphic design online with edX Bring your graphic design skills to life with design-focused online courses, professional certificates, executive education, and degree programs offered through edX. Level up your skills on your own schedule and from anywhere with free access to graphic design courses. Whether you're serious about pursuing a graphic design career or just need an introduction to design software, edX can help you achieve your educational goals. More opportunities for you to learn We've added 500+ learning opportunities to create one of the world's most comprehensive free-to-degree online learning platforms.
