Certificate vs Certification What is the Difference and Which is Right for You? When it comes to choosing a professional education path, it’s important to understand the difference between a certificate and certification, and what each may offer you. This short article explains the difference between the two. What is a certificate? A certificate is a credential that confirms that you completed a specific course or program of study (a sequence of courses). Certificates are usually awarded by educational institutions, like Stanford, and they are used to demonstrate knowledge and skills in a particular subject area. Certificate programs can help you gain subject matter expertise in a relatively short amount of time. They can also be stacked together to deepen your knowledge in a specialized field, or learn a new field, without investing in an advanced degree. At Stanford Online, we offer a wide range of credentials with varying levels of academic rigor and time commitment required. Some examples of certificates you can earn from Stanford are: A certificate in Product Management, which you earn when you complete a sequence of courses spanning topics in product creation, marketing, team operations, and product costing. A certificate in Artificial Intelligence, which you earn when you complete courses in machine learning, natural language processing, reinforcement learning, and other modern AI techniques. A certificate in Digital Transformation, which you earn when you complete a sequence of courses that teach you the skills you need to execute an informed, technology-enabled business transformation. What is a certification? In comparison, certification is a process by which you verify that you have the required skills, knowledge and ability to perform a specific job. It involves meeting specific requirements, such as completing a certain amount of education or training, passing an exam, and meeting ongoing continuing education requirements. It is usually granted by a professional association or organization, not a higher education institution. By completing that organization’s requirements, you become “certified” in a specific skill. Earning a certificate issued by a higher education institution typically does not mean you are “certified” in the topic or discipline you studied. Certifications are recognized by industry and may be required to enter or continue to work in a specific position. Examples of certifications include: Certified Public Accountant (CPA), a certification granted by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) to those who have completed the necessary education and experience requirements and passed the CPA exam. Project Management Professional (PMP), a certification granted by the Project Management Institute (PMI) to those who have passed the PMP exam. Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP), a certification granted by the International Information System Security Certification Consortium (ISC)2 to those who have passed the CISSP exam. Certificate or Certification - Which is Right for You? It's important to understand the difference between a certificate and a certification when choosing a professional education path. Certificates confirm that you completed a specific course or program of study and can demonstrate knowledge or skills in a particular subject area. They are great if you want to learn something specific more quickly and for less money than earning a degree. Certifications verify that you have the required skills and knowledge to perform a specific job, and are usually granted by a professional association or certifying organization. You may need a certification to work in a specific position. Either way, a professional credential of any type can help you on your path toward a more rewarding career. Ready to find your certificate program? Explore all of Stanford Online’s certificate programs today!
