Trusted by employees at leading organizations START YOUR JOURNEY IN BLOCKCHAIN AND WEB3 WITH 101 BLOCKCHAINS Discover the world of Blockchain and the benefits it holds for your career with our Blockchain Fundamentals Free Course Familiarize yourself with the fundamental concepts and terms in blockchain technology. Learn about the working mechanisms and advantages of smart contracts. Understand the different verticals of blockchain transformation alongside leading sectors in blockchain adoption. Learn the basic concepts of Blockchain with the Blockchain Fundamentals Course Blockchain is a revolutionary distributed ledger technology that has changed the traditional approach to exchanging information and financial transactions. Almost every professional in the world of technology wants to learn blockchain for free and start their blockchain journey. Top companies such as IBM, Microsoft, Walmart, Amazon, Mastercard, and JP Morgan have adopted blockchain technology in different capacities. As a matter of fact, around 44 out of the top 100 public companies utilize blockchain technology. Furthermore, the role of blockchain in empowering the web3 ecosystem also implies the necessity of learning about blockchain. The blockchain free course is a beginner-level tool for any professional wanting to familiarize themselves with blockchain and its essential concepts. It is a trusted resource that helps you overcome any apprehensions about learning a new technology. The free blockchain course provides more than just a glossary of essential blockchain terms. You will understand how blockchain technology works and familiarize yourself with important terms such as consensus mechanisms, DLT, and many more. The blockchain fundamentals course covers important blockchain terms like double-spending, validators, and others. On top of it, the course also covers the working mechanisms and advantages of smart contracts, one of the core components of the blockchain ecosystem. Through the blockchain course for beginners, you will understand the different ways of fuelling digital transformation with blockchain technology. lastly, we will cover the areas that could benefit from blockchain adoption alongside the industries leading the path in blockchain adoption. WHAT YOU WILL LEARN? Find The Best Introduction To Blockchain Technology By Learning Basic concepts and working of blockchain technology. Important terms and concepts in the domain of blockchain. Working mechanisms and the benefits of smart contracts. Approaches for using blockchain in digital transformation. You Should Take The Free Blockchain Course If Want To Learn blockchain for free and understand what blockchain is capable of Learn about blockchain technology and key concepts that would revolutionize digital experiences Identify the best practices for using blockchain for enterprise digital transformation Gather new business ideas with an unknown technology Course Curriculum A message from your instructor Download the course presentation Join 101 Blockchains Community Lesson 1: What exactly is Blockchain Technology Lesson 2: Important Blockchain Terms Interactive Exercises Lesson 3: Smart Contract Basics Lesson 4: Blockchain Digital Transformation Answer the quiz to unlock a surprise Enjoy unlimited access to complimentary lectures Register to join the online events Learn with the free resources Enroll in Blockchain courses and certifications Become a professional member to get membership benefits THE IDEAL INTRO COURSE TO BLOCKCHAIN- WHO SHOULD JOIN? Anyone who wants to learn blockchain for free Senior leaders and decision-makers Software developers and engineers Advisors and business analysts Innovation managers and startup founders FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTS OF BLOCKCHAIN- CLOSE THE SKILL GAP The Blockchain Fundamentals Free Course offers the ideal tool for diving into the blockchain world. It provides comprehensive lessons on blockchain fundamentals, explaining its working mechanisms and essential terms. The free blockchain course also features interactive exercises that help reinforce learning outcomes from different lessons. Most importantly, it enables you to close the skill gap by understanding how blockchain is adopted in enterprise environments. Enroll for FREE Bonus Material Course Presentation Download the course presentation and access it anytime, anywhere. Additional Lectures Get access to additional lectures and improve your skills even more. Join Online Events Access exclusive events and live webinars with top industry experts. Learn from the Experience of Industry Experts Who will Share Their Knowledge with You Aviv Lichigstein is a thought leader, entrepreneur, and senior-level executive with extensive experience in building products, utilizing Big Data and AI. He has a proven track record of building and managing teams, products, business models, and strategies. Aviv is the founder and CEO of 101 Blockchains, leading the team that is dedicated to helping the Blockchain Professionals grow. Aviv Lichtigstein Senior Instructor Email Enrico Camerinelli is a world-renowned expert of Blockchain and Supply Chain Finance whose current area of focus is blockchain, global transaction banking, supply chain finance, and corporate treasury systems. Enrico is a founding member of the Supply Chain Finance Community. He is also a member of the Italian Delegation at the United Nations Center for Electronic Commerce and Trade Facilitation. Enrico Camerinelli Lead Instructor Email What Our Students Say Excellent training – a great way to upskill your team "Our team wanted to upskill with knowledge about Blockchain, Web3, and the Metaverse. We chose 101 Blockchains because of their extensive course library and experienced trainers. After we completed a few courses, we can say we gained valuable skills. The trainers and content were easy to follow, and the lesson flow was excellent. The quizzes also helped break down the content into digestible segments. We highly recommend 101 Blockchains as a platform for any team looking to upskill and excel." Leonard Catalin Talent Acquisition Manager, Accenture 101 Blockchains is a must-have resource for web3 education "As a chief technology officer, I have to stay up to date with the latest technologies and trends, and have the tools to apply them in my work. With 101 Blockchains I found just that, a vast library of certifications and courses, an emphasis on practical use cases, and the most current materials I could find online." Todd Bailey CTO, CareConvene Great business-oriented Blockchain course "The Enterprise Blockchain Professional Course gave me just the right amount of technical and business understanding of this important technology. I’d highly recommend it to any business professional who wants to do the same." Karen Merchant Managing Director at Commerzbank AG The best option for Blockchain education "As a supply manager, I was eager to learn more about blockchain and how to use it in my field. I tried another training platform and it wasn’t as good as 101 Blockchains in terms of the courses offered and the expertise of the instructors. I easily found the right courses and certifications for me and gained new skills that boosted my productivity and opened new doors for me." Gerson Murayama Supply Chain Manager and Advisor Very Useful blockchain course for startups "I was looking for an online course to guide me through our implementation process, with a practical focus and a trustworthy platform. 101 Blockchains was recommended to me by a co-worker who found it very useful and insightful. After taking three courses, I have to agree; the syllabus was well thought out, I gained practical skills, and it was perfect for my needs." Tana Liu CIO of WE CHAIN My experience with the CNFTP course was good and I highly recommend it "The explanation skills of the trainer are effective and the flow of the lessons is sensibly compiled as well as the conciseness of the quizzes that highlights what is necessary to retain. When I encountered challenges, I reached out to the support team, who was more than alert in corresponding to me with the best solutions. I recommend this course to anyone trying to build an NFT career." FRANCES SY ( 蔡嘉玲) NFT Professional Breaking down the Blockchain "I work with the biggest companies in the world and I need the most up-to-date knowledge so I can stay ahead of the curve. As the world is buzzing about blockchain, I wanted to learn more about it, so I took the CEBP course and it helped me understand it in an easy-to-follow format. It is a great source of information that translates to the professional work environment well." G. Ken Hornung Senior Sales Director, emTRUTH A great place to start your quest for knowledge "The training courses on the metaverse and Web 3.0 by 101 Blockchains introduced me to new topics that are truly exciting and will have an impact on many industries. With the emergence of Web 3.0 and the massive potential around the metaverse, these courses are a great tool to get immersed and started on your journey. These courses equipped me with tools that I now use in my everyday work." David Petramala Vice President of Global Sales, Subspace Great blockchain architecture content and training "The trainer and content were easy to follow, relevant to what I needed to know about Blockchain technology, and provided easy-to-understand examples of complex Blockchain systems. I highly recommend 101 Blockchain training for anyone designing and implementing Blockchain solutions. The self-paced courses are great for busy professionals like me, and the use cases tie in with my line of work." Amir Niliaram President and CEO, DAPL Corp The right place to start your blockchain journey "CBSE is great for security enthusiasts like me who are eager to learn about blockchain security. The course curriculum is well organized and really easy to understand. The instructor has a lot of experience, and the overall experience was great. 101 Blockchains is the right place to start your blockchain journey because you get practical knowledge and the confidence to use blockchain in the real world." Berkay Kan Security Researcher The absolute best course for Blockchain beginners and pros! "After more than 3 years of blockchain technology research, I can honestly say that the CEBP course provides the essential knowledge and tools for anyone who wants to learn more about blockchain fundamentals, use cases, and business applications. If you are looking for the number 1 course in the field, 101 Blockchains’ course is the absolute best choice." Ariel Vega IT Leader , Cencosud S.A. Learn web3 in the easiest and most effective way "As strategy managers, Web3 has become essential for us to provide the best solutions to our clients. We looked for the best training platform and enrolled in 101 Blockchains, where we found courses on smart contracts, Ethereum, blockchain networks, NFTs, the Metaverse, and other Web3 concepts crucial to our line of work. The courses were comprehensive and insightful, offering many real-world examples that aligned perfectly with our needs." Luis Gonzalez IT Strategy Manager, Deloitte Blockchain Fundamentals Free Course FAQs The free blockchain course has no prerequisites, and anyone can enroll in the course. If you want to learn blockchain for free, you are welcome to enroll in the course and familiarize yourself with blockchain. Also, you can enroll in the course without prior knowledge about blockchain technology. The topics covered in the blockchain fundamentals course include the working mechanism of blockchain, important blockchain concepts, the working of smart contracts, and the use of blockchain for digital transformation. Yes, 101 Blockchains provides all learners expert support for the blockchain fundamentals free course. You can reach out to our experts and clarify any academic or technical issues in no time. You can have unlimited access to all the certification programs along with 60+ courses on 101 Blockchains with our Premium plan. The Premium plan offers unlimited access to all the content available on 101 Blockchains as well as our career page. You can join the Premium plan for $75 per month. You can access all the courses along with all the skill and career paths on 101 Blockchains by enrolling for the Standard or Premium pricing plans. Learners can find the Standard plan in the “Pricing Plans” section. You can access more than 60 professional courses along with all the career and skill paths offered by 101 Blockchains without any additional cost. The pricing of the Standard plan is $25 per month. You can enroll your team members in the 101 Blockchains Team Plan for $600 (Minimum 2 team members) per year. The Team Plan offers access to all the training courses on 101 Blockchains alongside other team-learning features. You will find an admin dashboard alongside a dedicated customer success manager in the Team Plan. In addition, the Team Plan also allows you to create custom learning tracks for your teams. The Team Plan also provides accurate reports on the performance and progress of teams in their blockchain and web3 training journey. The course does not have CPD accreditation. However, 101 Blockchains offers the advantage of CPD accreditation with its certification courses. The CPD Certification Service, UK, provides accreditation for certification programs to showcase proof of continuous professional learning and development. Yes, the free blockchain fundamentals course is helpful for certification preparations. The training course provides a compelling introduction to blockchain technology alongside helping you overcome your fear of a new technology. The average annual salary of a blockchain professional is $136,000, ranging from $80,000 to $325,000. The specific job role, location, and experience play a crucial role in determining the compensation of a blockchain professional. Blockchain provides unlimited opportunities for career growth as it continues growing at an exponential rate. The growth of blockchain as a technology is visible in its use as a core component of web3. Blockchain has led to the development of cryptocurrencies, NFTs, metaverse, and DeFi solutions and powers the web3 ecosystem. Therefore, career prospects in blockchain will continue expanding over the next few years. This free blockchain course helps you understand the fundamentals of blockchain and does not include any certification. It is only the first step in your journey of becoming a blockchain expert. You can enroll in the Certified Enterprise Blockchain Professional (CEBP) training course that will grant you a certification as a validation of your skills and knowledge. Yes, the free blockchain course can help you start your blockchain career by clearing all doubts regarding blockchain. You will understand the fundamentals of blockchain technology and find a way to overcome your apprehensions about blockchain. The confidence you get after learning the fundamental concepts of blockchain will help you pave the right learning path and skill development for you and your blockchain career. Trending Courses and Certifications Our Achievements Trusted by 100,000+ Professionals! Read real stories on Trustpilot and G2Crowd.
