1 Havenly Havenly Havenly starts you off with a style quiz and asks about your needs for the room (from “blank space” to “partway there” to “just needs love”). Big plus: You get to choose your own designer after looking at their online portfolios. As for pricing, you will be offered two options: a mini design, which provides style updates and finishing touches for any room, or the full package, which gives you layouts and floor plans (though this package is not available for kitchens or baths). You’ll then receive three design ideas, give feedback, and get the final plan from your designer, along with a shoppable list from retailers such as Wayfair, West Elm, and Anthropologie. Multiple design revisions are allowed until you’re happy. Fee: $99 for mini, $159 for full design, or in-person (in some cities) for $499. Best for: The budget-conscious homeowner who likes to fine-tune until things feel “right.” LEARN MORE 2 roomLift RoomLift RoomLift is a more personable option, allowing you to work with a small team of designers. Women-founded and -run, the company is geared toward people who know what they want but aren’t sure how to access the resources they need. You begin by downloading the app, filling out the questionnaire, and sending photos of your room. You will then be paired with a designer. Depending on which package you choose, you will receive immediate tips (Access an Expert), a design board with ideas (accessoryLift), or a full-scale design plan (roomLift). Fee: $100 for Access an Expert, which offers advice on solving a specific design challenge; $750 for an accessoryLift, which provides a design board with accessory and design ideas for the space; or $1,500 for a roomLift, a customized box that includes a specified floor plan, samples and furniture suggestions. Best for: The decorator who has strong ideas about what they want but needs someone to help pull it together. LEARN MORE Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 3 Decorilla Decorilla Decorilla asks you to fill out a questionnaire about your budget and preferences. You’ll be shown two images and asked to choose the one you prefer. You’ll also be asked to send in photos of your room. Next, you’ll receive multiple proposals, and you choose your favorite. Your designer will create a layout of new and existing pieces, send a realistic 3D model, floor plan, color palette, and an itemized shopping list with store links and pricing. You can buy the items over time, so you can purchase pieces in stages as your budget allows (with a “concierge” service that never expires). Pricing varies depending on the type of room and the designer’s experience level. Fee: Bronze level is $699 and includes proposals from two experienced designers; Silver level is $849 and includes proposals from two greatly experienced designers; Gold level is $1,549 and includes design concepts from two industry leading designers. Hourly rates from $175 to $500 are also available if you need additional help. Best for: The homeowner who likes choices and needs to see a space in realistic 3D rendering in order to understand the design concept. LEARN MORE 4 Pottery Barn Pottery Barn Pottery Barn, Pottery Barn Kids, and Pottery Barn Teen offer free design consultation in store, online, or in home within 60 miles of a store. You’ll get product recommendations from PB’s line, as well as the company’s sister brands including Williams-Sonoma, Williams-Sonoma Home, West Elm, Mark & Graham, and Rejuvenation. After meeting with your consultant, your designer will provide mood boards, product recommendations from their brands, customized room plans and cost. They’ve also partnered with Sherwin-Williams, so you’ll also see colors that pair well with their furnishings and accessories. Fee: Free Best for: The home enthusiast who wants to explore their options but has no budget for design fees. LEARN MORE Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 5 The Expert Michael P.H. Clifford for The Expert The Expert helps you schedule a one-on-one video consultation with well-known interior designers such as Martyn Lawrence Bullard, Leanne Ford, Sarah Brown, and Bobby Berk. You choose the designer based on their online portfolio, then schedule a video call. You select the length of your consult (ranging from 25 minutes to 115 minutes) and an open time slot. Your designer will advise on furnishings, paint, floor plans, and more. Every designer has a slightly different area of expertise, so make sure to read about what they offer before booking. Fee: Varies depending on length of call and designer expertise, but starts around $400 to $2,000 for a typical 55-minute call. Best for: The aesthete who loves a certain designer’s style and wants it for their own home. LEARN MORE 6 IKEA IKEA IKEA has a cult following for good reason: You get a lot of value for your dollar with stylish, clean lines that work in most homes. With their design process, you’ll start by filling out a questionnaire about your project, then you’ll receive a mood board and rough draft of plans for the space. You’ll get three virtual one-on-one sessions with your designer to hone the plans, then a final design package including a mood board, floor plan, product selection, 3D renderings, and material suggestions. The furnishing recommendations will be drawn strictly from their product line. They also help coordinate delivery and assembly of your furniture. Fee: $99 per room Best for: The minimalist who loves the clean lines of the IKEA look. LEARN MORE Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 7 Stucco Stucco Known for its real estate staging, Stucco also offers interior design services geared to existing rooms (rather than renovations). The company aims to complete every online design project within 14 business days of introducing a designer and client. As long as you get back to your designer within five business days, your design can be revised until you’re completely happy. You begin with this service by booking a call, receiving the names of three recommended designers, and choosing the one you want. You’ll get design tips, a final 3D design, furniture layout, and a clickable shopping list. You can purchase items directly from retailers such as West Elm, Nordstrom, Crate & Barrel, Wayfair, and Serena & Lily. Fee: $999 per room or $1,499 per open-concept room Best for: The decorator who wants a super-quick turnaround on their design. LEARN MORE 8 Collov Collov Collov starts you off by having you browse a gallery of rooms and choosing the images that reflect your personal taste. You note your budget and answer a few questions, then take a video of your space with the company’s app. You’ll receive one-on-one time with a designer, who will send you a walking tour of your design and suggest components such as paint and furniture. The proposal also includes shoppable links, but you’re not obligated to buy anything. The company promises no markups on furnishings, and if anything they suggest is not in your budget, they will find a suitable replacement. Fee: $159 for Classic, which includes a total redesign for a whole room, including mood boards (with three revisions allowed within 30 days) and 3D renderings; or Luxe for $259, which includes the Classic components, as well as working with the company’s most senior designers and receiving unlimited redesigns. Best for: The time-sensitive homeowner looking for one-stop shopping for design products. LEARN MORE Arricca Elin SanSone is a writer, editor, and content creator who specializes in lifestyle and gardening. With a background in health reporting, she applies these same research skills when writing about the science of growing things. She trials new plants in her expansive garden, and her houseplant collection consists of 60+ varieties. Arricca has written thousands of articles for publications such as Country Living , House Beautiful , Good Housekeeping , Prevention , VERANDA , Southern Living , and more. She’s happiest when digging in the dirt, baking, or spending time with the people and dogs she loves.
