There’s certainly no shortage of mobile app development services worldwide, giving businesses endless options for building mobile apps. But relying on mobile app development companies in the US is often the best choice compared to outsourcing overseas—especially if you’re creating an app for your business. Working with a US-based app development company may initially seem more expensive when you compare the costs to app developers in India or Eastern Europe. However, the long-term benefits typically outweigh the marginal cost difference and may ultimately save your business money over time. App development companies in the US help you get to market faster and deliver a higher ROI compared to overseas development. Plus, you won’t have to worry about language barriers, time zone discrepancies, or other challenges associated with cross-border agreements. So if you’re looking for mobile app developers in the United States, you’ve come to the right place. Read on to find the best app development company for your business. Top 11 Mobile App Development Companies in United States I’ve put together a list of the top app development companies in the USA and highlighted areas where they shine above the rest. You can use this guide to find the right app development company for your unique needs and app development project. 1. Buildfire Buildfire is the best mobile app development company in the United States. Trusted by more than 10,000+ mobile apps across every industry, it’s the perfect combination of quality, performance, and support—all at an affordable price for any budget. What truly separates Buildfire from other app development companies on the market is its industry-leading technology. As an app maker, Buildfire already has the backend infrastructure and core app components in place. So if you hire Buildfire to create your app, their developers can leverage these existing components and features to build your app in a fraction of the time. They can also handle iOS and Android app development under one roof with a single build. This gets your app to market faster while reaching the widest potential audience. Buildfire is versatile enough to handle the needs of businesses across a wide range of industries, including: Ecommerce apps Education apps Gym, fitness, and wellness apps Business workflow apps Employee communication apps Apps for events Apps for religious organizations Apps for content creators The list goes on and on. For small businesses to enterprise organizations and Fortune 500s alike, it’s Buildfire’s mission to turn your app idea into a reality. Overall, Buildfire’s service is unmatched. These developers take the time to get to understand your needs to ensure your app aligns with your business goals. You can scale without limits, and BuildFire will be there to support you every step of the way. 2. ScienceSoft Founded in 1989, ScienceSoft is the oldest software development company on our list. They offer a wide range of development services, ranging from IT consulting to data analytics, cybersecurity, web app development, and custom software development for mobile applications. While the company itself is more than 30 years old, they didn’t start building mobile apps until 2005. In that time, they only delivered about 350 mobile projects. While mobile app development isn’t ScienceSoft’s most popular service offering, the brand’s experience and longevity still earn it a spot on our list. It’s especially good for complex builds related to custom CMS systems or supply chain management. Working with Sciencesoft won’t be cheap. Here’s a ballpark estimate of their app development services, taken directly from their website: Simple apps (such as booking apps) — $30,000 to $70,000 Complex apps (such as mobile commerce apps — $120,000 to $180,000 Banking apps or mobile telehealth apps — $150,000+ For those of you with deep pockets and the need for an ultra-complex business solution, like using embedded AR for warehouse item picking, then ScienceSoft may be right for you. 3. Naked Development In addition to having an eye-catching name, Naked Development is another mobile app services company that should be on your radar. Their app developers do wear clothes (as far as I know). But you can swing by one of their offices in Irvine or Austin to find out. They’ve launched 327 mobile apps, which puts them on the smaller side of boutique firms. But one unique standout of Naked Development compared to other app development services is its incubator-type environment for app ideas. Beyond development, they also specialize in app fundraising. According to their website, Naked Development has raised over $96.5 million in app funds. So if you’re a startup that needs to secure funding and get support that goes outside the scope of development, you can strip down to your birthday suit with these guys. 4. Trango Tech Trango Tech has offices throughout the US—including locations like Chicago, San Jose, Dallas, and New York. They also have an office in Pakistan. So while the company is definitely based in the US, it’s unclear whether or not you’ll be working with a mobile app developer that’s Stateside or overseas. But that’s something you inquire about if you decide to consult with Trango. Aside from building mobile apps, one unique standout of Trango is that they offer BPO (business process outsourcing) services. So if you need additional resources for things like telephone answering services, outsourced call centers, or back-office support, you can rely on Trango for these initiatives. 5. Zco Corporation Zco Corporation is an app development company based in New Hampshire. They also have satellite offices in Boston and New York, in case you want to meet with an app developer in those locations. This firm specializes in virtual reality apps and mobile game apps, relying on full-stack developers experienced in a range of different code and programming languages, including: Swift Kotlin React Native Flutter Maui Xamarin Java Objective-C One cool project they’ve built is a golf app that has 3D images of 35,000 courses around the world. According to their website, the average cost to build an app with them is $30,000 and takes up to nine months to build. 6. Lounge Lizard Lounge Lizard is best known as a web development company. With offices in Miami, Nashville, Washington DC, Richmond, Charleston, and Long Island, Lounge Lizard is a professional and results-driven agency. While mobile apps aren’t the company’s primary service, it’s still an option to consider if you want to get your website redesigned or you want to build web apps under the same roof as mobile apps. Lounge Lizard also offers services for: SEO Email marketing Conversion rate optimization Social media management PPC management Website redesign So if you like the idea of working with a digital marketing company that happens to also build apps, consider working with Lounge Lizard. 7. Chop Dawg Chop Dawg has launched over 400+ apps in the past 14 years. Averaging roughly 30 builds per year, it’s a smaller firm that could be a good option if you don’t like the idea of working with a bigger company. One cool part about Chop Dawg is they’ll build you a non-functioning prototype so you can get a feel for your app project without having to put up significant funds. You can use this app prototype as a way to pitch your idea to stakeholders or potential investors, before diving into development. Chop Dawg also promises to lock in the rate they’ve quoted you, so you won’t have to worry about any unexpected overages. 8. Swensen He Swensen He has an office in Beverly Hills and another in Dallas. Founded by two MIT grads, this app development agency offers strategy, design, evolution, and support for mobile apps. What makes them unique? Swensen He performs a “technical feasibility study” to see if you actually have a viable concept. This means that you could come to them with an idea, and they might say, “Hey, that actually won’t work.” It’s refreshing to have this level of honesty, as other app developers on the market may just build the app to take your money and not care if it works or not. That’s what earned Swensen He a spot on our list. 9. Jafton Jafton is a US-based app development company with offices throughout seven states—California, Texas, New York, Illinois, Florida, Washington, and Georgia. Some of the unique standouts and services offered by Jafton include: Blockchain development services Smart contract development Crypto consulting Telemedicine app development Web 3.0 development Fintech development These niche-specific development services help Jafton differentiate themselves from other app development companies in the US. 10. The NineHertz The NineHertz is a global mobile app development agency. In addition to having a physical presence in the United States, they also have offices in Australia, India, Canada, Israel, the UK, and UAE. This is another instance where it’s unclear if you’re getting a US-based developer or if they’re outsourcing to another branch. But that’s always something you can inquire about if you’re interested in working with them. They deal with cross-platform app development, hybrid app development, wearable app development, flutter app development, and React Native development. The NineHertz offers dozens of different development solutions ranging from mobile games to blockchain, Joomla, DevOps, and beyond. Mobile is just one of the many things they do. It’s worth noting that there’s a weird disclaimer on their website—saying something along the lines that they don’t provide any individuals with monetary compensation, freelance opportunities, or part-time jobs. While there’s nothing wrong with stating that somewhere—I found it strange that there was a pop-up banner about this on its development page. While this isn’t a dealbreaker by any stretch, it was still something that caught me off guard. 11. Glorium Technologies Glorium Technologies builds apps for VC-backed startups. So if you’re funded and looking to bring your idea to reality without using a team of in-house developers, Glorium could be an alternative option to consider. They’re definitely a bit more selective than other companies on our list—meaning they won’t work with just anyone. With over 12 years on the market, they’ve only delivered about 100 products. This is the lowest we’ve seen compared to the other development agencies reviewed here. It’s also worth noting that Glorium Technologies has expertise in the medical field building solutions for medical imaging compliance, pharmacy supply chain management, HL7, and FHIR. How to Find the Best Mobile App Development Company in the USA In addition to the app development companies listed above, you can use the following criteria to help narrow down your options even further. Here’s what you need to look for when you’re evaluating mobile app development solutions. Experience The best app development companies have experienced app developers with years of industry expertise. This means they’ve seen it all, and they’re prepared to handle anything that comes up before, during, or after the development process. For example, BuildFire has been trusted to build over 10,000+ mobile apps over the past decade. Other service providers on our list have been around for the same amount of time, but only built less than 350 mobile apps. Ideally, you should also look for a mobile application development company that has experience in your particular industry. App Type Certain app development companies specialize in specific types of apps. For example, you’ll likely need to rely on highly specialized app developers if you’re creating a virtual reality gaming app or a fully custom CMS app. Other app developers are better for things like education apps, fitness apps, or ecommerce apps. You also need to determine if you’re building for iOS, Android, or both. Typically, iOS and Android development require two completely separate builds—doubling your costs and extending your timeline to launch. BuildFire’s technology supports simultaneous development for iOS and Android. This helps keep your cost low and gets your app to market faster than other development companies. Business Alignment Look for an app development company that takes the time to understand your business, industry, and target market. Without this type of understanding and alignment, there’s often a disconnect between what you’re looking for and the final product. Think about the app development process for a moment. If you simply tell the company what you need and then wait six months for them to deliver your software, there will likely be major gaps in the end result. But when the app developers understand the purpose of your app, they can build it in a way that aligns with your business goals. Ongoing Support What happens after your app goes live? There’s still a ton of work that needs to be done behind the scenes. From managing the servers and infrastructure that powers your app to design changes and ensuring compatibility with the latest app store updates and requirements, there’s a serious need for ongoing maintenance support. Try to find an app development company that offers these ongoing services. This will allow you to focus on your core business and customers while the app development company handles all of the technical aspects on the backend. Cost You’ll need to have a reasonable budget in mind as you’re comparing different app development companies in the US. This is a quick way to disqualify potential options. Some companies will quote you upwards of $250,000 or even $400,000 to create an app. Others will fall in the $25,000 or $50,000 range. Remember, paying more doesn’t automatically mean you’re getting a better quality app. Some development companies help you keep costs low by building your app on their existing infrastructure. This is a more affordable way to create an app without sacrificing quality or performance. Use our app cost calculator to find out how much you can save with BuildFire. Location When comparing the best app developers in the United States, location doesn’t really matter. Let’s say your business is located in Chicago. That doesn’t mean you need to use a Chicago-based development company. All communications will be handled digitally, and it’s not like you’ll be stopping by the office to check in and oversee what’s happening. So you can be in New York and use a service provider in Los Angeles without hesitation—even though you’re on opposite ends of the country. Furthermore, foreign companies can also rely on using an app development company in the USA. A business in Europe or Australia isn’t limited to using developers in their region and can always use a US-based development company for their project. Final Thoughts Navigating the app development industry can feel a bit daunting, especially if it’s your first time going through this process. But I hope that by narrowing down 11 different USA app developers can help provide you with a clearer picture of how to get started. All of the top app developers reviewed made our list for a different reason, and they each offer something unique that makes them stand out from the crowd. If you still need some assistance, request a free consultation with the app development experts here at BuildFire. We’ll walk you through our development process so you can see what it takes to bring your app idea to life.
