01 Mar Top Cybersecurity News Sites The information security magazines, blogs, and news sources we follow, and you should too – Steve Morgan , Editor-in-Chief Sausalito, Calif. – Dec. 8, 2022 It’s not easy staying current on the latest cyber attacks, data breaches, and hacks globally. But there’s some great IT and cybersecurity magazines, blogs and specialized media that can help. Cybercrime Magazine, published by Cybersecurity Ventures, strives to live up to our tagline – Page ONE for the Cybersecurity Industry – by focusing on cyber economic data from our reports covering cybercrime damage costs, cybersecurity spending, cybersecurity employment, and other statistics that frame the market. Page ONE also means that we provide readers with lists and directories of the top cybersecurity sources. There are hundreds of media properties in our industry, and so many of them provide great editorial content. It’s not easy to narrow down the field, so our list is based on the top sites that our editors rely upon for their own news. TOP 10 CYBERSECURITY NEWS SITES The editors at Cybersecurity Ventures pick more of their favorites: CSO is published by IDG, the leading technology media and marketing services company. Cybercrime Wire curates the latest security and privacy news, published by Cybersecurity Ventures. DarkReading is published by UBM, one of the world’s leading B2B events companies. Graham Cluley offers his own award-winning computer security news, advice, and opinion. Infosecurity Magazine is published by Reed Exhibitions, one of the world’s leading events companies. Help Net Security is an independent site, focusing on information security since 1998. Krebs On Security is published by Brian Krebs, a top investigative reporter and security writer. Security Magazine is published by BNP Media, with over 50 publications in distinct industry markets. Security Week provides Internet and Enterprise Security News, published by Wired Business Media. The Hacker News is run by Paul Graham’s investment fund and startup incubator, Y Combinator. DAILY CYBERSECURITY NEWS The world of cyber from leading business, financial, and technology media outlets: BBC News Cyber-security provides world and U.K. cybercrime and cybersecurity news. CNBC Tech | Cybersecurity covers the latest and biggest hacks and breaches globally. CNET Security on digital privacy, data theft, cyber conflict, and more. Forbes Tech / Security provides daily cybersecurity blogs from staff writers and contributors. FOX News Cyber Security covers cyber politics, hacks, and data breaches. INDEPENDENT’S Cyber Security from the well respected British online newspaper. Reuters Cybersecurity Headlines feature the latest data breaches globally. The New York Times Computer Security News provides breaking cybersecurity stories. U.S. News & World Report on Cybersecurity covers what society and consumers should know. WIRED SECURITY on cyberwarfare, the dark web, and global cybersecurity news. Looking for cybersecurity industry podcasts? Look no further than Cybercrime Radio for our weekly interviews with experts, thought leaders, and celebrities. – Steve Morgan is founder and Editor-in-Chief at Cybersecurity Ventures. Go here to read all of my blogs and articles covering cybersecurity. Go here to send me story tips, feedback and suggestions. – Connor Morgan, a Cybercrime Magazine summer intern, contributed to this list.
