Real Estate Today 3.9 (103) INVESTING UPDATED WEEKLY Real Estate Today opens doors for buyers and sellers with critical and credible information on the real estate market. It's fast-paced and fact-packed with experts, interviews, call-ins, field reports, and timely market conditions. 1D AGO The 2025 Winter Real Estate Market This week on Real Estate Today, we break down why winter may be the secret season for savvy buyers and why hitting pause until spring could mean missing real opportunities. We take a look at the current housing market, explore why first-time buyers make up the smallest share of buyers on record, and highlight opportunities for today's buyers, including how purchasing in winter could work to your advantage and how to shop smarter for a mortgage and potentially save. Guests include Dr. Jessica Lautz, deputy chief economist at the National Association of REALTORS®; Christine Belin, REALTOR® based in Corpus Christi, Texas; Matt Schulz, chief consumer finance analyst at LendingTree; and Patrick Roach, president and co-founder of Southwestern Real Estate in Wheaton, Illinois. Plus, in our Hot or Not segment, we weigh in on Pantone's Color of the Year for 2026, Cloud Dancer, and the use of light pink in interior design. DEC 12 Sleigh the Holiday Housing Market The holiday real estate season has arrived, and it may be one of the most strategic times of the year for homebuyers and sellers. This week on Real Estate Today, we dig into how the housing market is performing right now, whether home prices are still rising or beginning to level out, and why this festive season may offer unique opportunities for anyone looking to make a move before the New Year. We also explore the ups, downs, and even the funny moments that real estate pros experience during the holidays. Guests include Mike Ferrante, REALTOR® from Cleveland; Seb Frey, Silicon Valley real estate broker and host of the YouTube channel Seb Frey TV; Jenny Smith, REALTOR® with Jenny Smith & Associates in Georgia; Patrick Roach, president and co-founder of Southwestern Real Estate in Illinois; Angie Hicks, founder of the home services website Angi; and Kirsten Jordan, real estate broker with the Corcoran Group and alum of Bravo's "Million Dollar Listing New York." Plus, in our Hot or Not segment, we break down this season's top holiday home design trends, including the Ralph Lauren Christmas aesthetic, bright multicolored Christmas lights, and the rise of artificial Christmas trees. DEC 5 What Real Estate Pros Want You to Know Before You Buy and Sell We uncover the insider secrets real estate pros wish every buyer and seller knew. From navigating tricky seller disclosures to avoiding costly pricing mistakes, our experts break down the overlooked details that can make or break your next move. Learn how to boost your home's resale value, the updates that truly pay off, and the things you should never say to your real estate agent. We also share top tips to spruce up your home with selling in mind and smart strategies for choosing the right property in any market. Guests include Kati Spaniak, real estate professional with eXp Realty; Rebecca Hidalgo, real estate broker with Integrity All Star Realty; Mallory Slesser, real estate broker with Baird & Warner; Kathleen McQuilkin, real estate professional with RE/MAX Professional Realty; Kirsten Jordan, real estate broker with the Corcoran Group and alum of Bravo's "Million Dollar Listing New York"; and Latham Jenkins, associate broker with Live Water Properties in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Plus, in our Hot or Not segment, we look at two home design trends: formal dining rooms with built-ins and coastal modern design NOV 28 The Power of Community: 2025 Good Neighbor Award Winners This week on Real Estate Today, we spotlight the inspiring winners of the 2025 Good Neighbor Awards—REALTORS® making a difference in communities nationwide. Discover how these real estate professionals are transforming lives beyond the closing table by: Raising millions for ALS patient services Creating a hospice care center Keeping families together by providing essential items Funding families facing life-threatening illnesses Promoting youth mental health Meet our extraordinary guests: Ray Manzoni, president of ALS Ride For Life Cindy Bradley, founder of Sacred Ground Hospice House Kim Clifton, founder of Tierra Antigua Hope Foundation Ken Larson, founder of Northern Lights Foundation JacQuan Winters, founder of Kristen Amerson Youth Foundation Plus, in our Hot or Not segment, we reveal the top five home design trends homeowners are thankful for this year. Tune in for powerful stories, actionable insights, and the latest real estate trends shaping the market. NOV 21 Home Upgrades That Pay Off: Smart Remodeling & Design Trends Refresh, Update & Elevate Your Home This week on Real Estate Today, discover the smartest ways to transform your home—whether you're staying put or preparing to sell. Learn which home improvement projects deliver real return on investment, the top remodeling trends for 2025, and which design ideas to skip. Plus, big-ticket lessons every homeowner can use and budget-friendly updates that make your space bold, unforgettable, and full of personality. Featured Guests: Kirsten Jordan, Associate Broker of the top ten national real estate team and alum of Bravo's "Million Dollar Listing New York" Gray Benko & Chelcie Eastman, hosts of the new Magnolia Network show, Anything But Gray Jennifer Bien, DAHLIN Architecture Scott Wharton, HouseMaster Home Inspections Hot or Not: Are man caves still in? Is color drenching the next big thing? Find out what's trending now. NOV 13 Homebuyers Guide to Saving Money Everyone wants to save money on their home and this week on Real Estate Today, we're showing you how. From lowering your mortgage rate to dodging rising insurance premiums, we'll cover the smartest ways to protect your wallet and make the most of your real estate investment. Learn how REALTORS® help clients avoid costly mistakes, what smart financial strategies can help homeowners save more, and how a little paint can go a long way in a budget-friendly remodel. Guests include Matt Schulz, chief consumer finance analyst at LendingTree; Travis Hodges, managing director of VIU; Sue Wadden, director of color marketing at Sherwin-Williams; Rebecca Hidalgo, REALTOR®; and Tom Staub, CEO of Red Oak Development Group. Plus, in our Hot or Not segment, we explore two home design trends making headlines: home theaters and tinted windows. NOV 7 Winter Home Maintenance Made Easy Utility bills got you shivering? You're not alone. This week on Real Estate Today, we're tackling winter head-on to help you keep the elements out and your utility bills down. Whether you're a homeowner, renter, or just tired of battling drafts and high energy costs, we've got tips to help you stay comfortable, save money, and protect your home this season. You'll learn how to prevent frozen pipes, maintain your roof, and seal drafts. We also cover the green and energy-efficient home features buyers are seeking and the surprises homeowners may encounter when filing insurance claims. Guests include Kathleen McQuilkin, real estate pro; Scott Wharton, franchise business coach with HouseMaster Home Inspections; Travis Hodges, managing director of VIU; and Michael Wagner, president of Roof Scientist. Plus, in our Hot or Not segment, we discuss disaster-proof homes and greenwashing. OCT 30 Real Estate's Spooky Season: Tales From the Market It's spooky season on Real Estate Today, and we're diving into the haunted side of homeownership. From horrifying home design trends to creepy real estate stories, our experts share what happens when the market gets scary. We'll explore homes "haunted" by bad design choices, listings that came with shocking surprises, and sellers who use cameras to listen to buyers. You'll also learn which pests and insects are most likely to sneak into your home this time of year. Guests include REALTOR® Mary Harmon Young from Tuscaloosa, AL; REALTOR® Kati Spaniak from Northbrook, IL; REALTOR® Kourtney Pulitzer from Palm Beach, FL; and Frank Meek, board-certified entomologist. Plus, in our Hot or Not segment, we reveal the most horrifying home design trends of the year. About Real Estate Today opens doors for buyers and sellers with critical and credible information on the real estate market. It's fast-paced and fact-packed with experts, interviews, call-ins, field reports, and timely market conditions. Information Creator Real Estate Today Years Active 2009 - 2025 Episodes 521 Rating Clean Copyright © 142619 Show Website Real Estate Today You Might Also Like
