Atlanta Web Design Company With our Atlanta web design services, you’ll receive a custom, mobile-friendly website that’s optimized for search engine optimization (SEO). If you want to expand your online reach and earn more revenue, we can help. Contact us online or call 404-531-2286 to speak with one of our experts today! Atlanta, GA Our Specialized Marketing Services Atlanta Web Design Services Our website design services are designed to build your website using your design ideas, help visitors learn about your products and services, and drive not only traffic to your website but also revenue to your business. Partner with our award-winning web designers to turn your website into a revenue generator, no matter the season. Learn about how we can turn your web design ideas into reality by watching our graphic design video or visiting our specialized web design services pages. Atlanta Social Media Services Boost your brand awareness through strategic use of social media platforms, including Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, YouTube, and X (Twitter). Our skilled social media team will create a customized plan for your profiles, initiate targeted campaigns, and design your pages to ensure a cohesive brand identity wherever your customers find you. Watch our video or visit our special social media services pages to learn more about our Atlanta, GA agency. Atlanta Digital Marketing Services WebFX is a comprehensive digital marketing agency located in Atlanta, GA, offering SEO, PPC, Social Media, and Web Design services. We create tailored strategies aligned with your business’s SMART goals, assign you a dedicated account manager, and deliver measurable results. Discover how our team of digital marketing professionals supports Georgia businesses in achieving growth and success. Atlanta SEO Services Is your website failing to generate leads and customers? SEO services provide 24/7 visibility and turn your site into a money-making machine. Drive more traffic to your site and earn more loyal clients and customers with data-backed SEO best practices on your website. Learn more about our SEO services by watching our video or exploring our special SEO services. Atlanta PPC Services Gain customers and boost sales cost-effectively with pay-per-click (PPC) advertising. Get an edge over competitors! Our Atlanta, GA PPC team helps you earn qualified leads, maximize your ROI, and achieve fast results. Learn more about our PPC services by watching our video or exploring our specialized services. Meet WebFX A world-class digital marketing agency with thousands of reviews applauding our transparency. Located in Atlanta, GA WebFX has partnered with numerous local businesses in Georgia to help them grow with digital marketing. We’ve helped to implement campaigns including SEO, PPC, email marketing, and beyond. WebFX 1000 Parkwood Circle SE #900, Atlanta, GA 30339, USA Get Directions 404-531-2286 M-F: 9:00am – 5:00pm How can our top Atlanta web design company help your business? WebFX is an award-winning Atlanta web design company behind more than 1,000+ successful websites, and we show no signs of slowing down. Why should your business choose our agency, though? Partner You With Award-Winning Designers Reinforces Your Brand Visitors Learn About Your Business Drive Revenue We’ll partner you with award-winning designers We’ll partner you with award-winning designers Our Georgia web designers have won 220+ Horizon awards, and the number keeps growing every year. At WebFX, our design experts take the time to get to know your specific needs and goals as a company. We want to know the design ideas you have, what your website currently looks like, and your end goal for your website. Plus, we partner you with a dedicated project manager, so you have a point-of-contact that you can easily connect with to ask questions, share resources, and more. We’ll create a site that reinforces your brand We’ll create a site that reinforces your brand A great website design will enforce your brand with the color scheme, design elements, and tone of writing — and that’s exactly what our Atlanta website design company does. For example, your website could include the same colors that make up your logo, include design elements that mimic your storefront location, and match the tone that resonates most with your target audience. We’ll make it easy for visitors to learn about your business We’ll make it easy for visitors to learn about your business One of the main benefits of having a website is that it teaches your target audience about your products and services. A website is a hub for product descriptions, what’s included with your services, and the prices of each. Not only does your website help teach interested customers about your products and services, but it teaches them about your business, your goals, and what means most to you as a company. Sharing this information with your site visitors helps to build brand loyalty. As your Atlanta website development and design partner, we’ll make sure it’s easy for users to navigate your site, learn about your offerings, purchase your products, and contact your business. We’ll optimize your site to drive revenue We’ll optimize your site to drive revenue In today’s world, 96% of Americans shop online. In fact, 43% shop from their beds, 20% shop from the bathroom, and 23% shop while on the clock. That means that if you don’t have an online presence or a “virtual home base” for customers to shop from, you could be missing out on serious sales. With our Georgia web design services, you can trust that your site follows best practices for attracting traffic, like through SEO, and converting it, like through conversion rate optimization (CRO). Driving Digital Revenue For Our 1,450+ Satisfied Customers Reach Your Business Goals in 2025 with WebFX Get a free proposal “WebFX has always worked hard to make sure that we’re getting what we need out of the partnership, not just what may seem like the best result” HydroWorx Your Dedicated Local Team 25+ Years of Experience 1,100 Testimonials 93% Client Satisfaction Rating How do I choose the right website design company in Atlanta, GA? With so many web designers around the area, it can be hard to narrow your search. After all, how do you know what website design company in Atlanta, GA will provide the best results? Here are a few pointers to choosing the best possible web designer for your business. The best Georgia web design firms will have an extensive portfolio full of web designs they have completed in the past. Do you like their style? Do their designs strike you as more simplistic, or busy? Do you like the way they include graphics and photos? Do their websites create a unique sense of style for each of the clients? These are small things to pay attention to when looking through a portfolio since the answers to these questions can help you determine if you enjoy the website designs they create. Testimonials are another great way to gauge the quality of an Atlanta web development company. If they have hundreds of testimonials, it’s safe to say that they probably provide extremely high-quality work. Obtaining that many testimonials is no small feat, and if an agency can do it, you can rest assured that their clients love their work. Before signing on the dotted line, be sure to speak on the phone, or even in person, with the web design company. This allows you to get to know them and their agency better, while asking important questions or concerns that you may have. When you talk to an agency on the phone, you should take note of the questions that they ask. They should be extremely interested in your industry and your business, your unique goals, and the current state of your website. Inside our Atlanta, GA office Welcome WebFX in the capital of the south, Atlanta, GA with a ton of small and medium-sized businesses. If you’re trying to figure out how to land at the top of the canopy in this city of trees, stop by our office in Park Circle by the Chattahoochee River. Some of our favorite spots include Georgia Aquarium–one of the largest aquariums in the world featuring a whale shark named Yushan, the birthplace of Martin Luther King Jr., and the home of Coca-Cola and its history museum. Connect with a strategist today and let’s get you started on your way to results! Also have business in the Queen City of Charlotte, NC? Let’s have a chat. Craft the website of your dreams with a dedicated web design partner At WebFX, we help businesses create the website of their dreams that not only represents their brand and looks beautiful, but also drives traffic, engages visitors, and generates leads and conversions. Our team is made up of award-winning designers, developers, website copywriters, and much more who are waiting to help you drive revenue with your website. Meet WebFX A world-class digital marketing agency with thousands of reviews applauding our transparency. FAQs When your team available? Our team is available and ready to help from 9:00am to 5:00pm, Monday through Friday. Where is your Atlanta office? Our Atlanta office is located at 1000 Parkwood Circle SE #900, Atlanta, GA 30339, USA. What is your phone number? You can call our team at 404-531-2286 !
