At Equitas Health, you get quality dentistry in a full-service health center with a trained and caring staff. Our team of dentists, dental assistants, and dental hygienists works with you to explore how best to meet the needs of you and your family. Emergency Dental Care Preventive Care Restorative Care Removable Our dental clinics accept Medicaid and most major private insurance plans. If you do not have insurance, or your insurance does not make your dental care affordable, please apply for our sliding fee scale. You deserve a healthy mouth! Payment will be due at the time of service. Office visits include dental exams, cleanings, and x-rays. Patients with dental insurance: We will contact your insurance company to check your coverage. We will also find out how much you will pay for your visit. Patients without dental insurance: You may apply for a reduced price through the Sliding Fee Discount. We will ask you about your income and household size to determine your payment amount. You will get an appointment for any needed procedures after your office visits. Procedures include, but are not limited to, bonding, bridges, crowns, dentures, extractions, fillings, fluoride, and root canals. For a full list of dental procedures and costs, see the Dental Fee Schedule. For procedures, you will pay half (50%) of the total cost when you make your appointment. For example, if your procedure costs $100, you would pay $50 for that procedure. The rest of your payment will be due at the time of service. If you are unable to pay the balance, you can: Patients with dental insurance: We will contact your insurance company to check your coverage. We will also find out how much you will pay for your procedure. Patients without dental insurance: If you qualify for the Sliding Fee Discount program, you will get a 35% discount on the regular cost of dental procedures listed in Equitas Health’s Dental Fee Schedule. We will honor any Sliding Fee Scale approvals that were granted prior to July 1, 2024. Learn what to expect from your first visit at Equitas Health. And how to prepare. Not feeling well? Please review the COVID-19 symptoms and what to do if you have them. Affordable Healthcare We proudly accept Medicaid, Medicare, and most private insurance plans. Don’t have insurance? Talk to our coverage navigators. The Sliding Fee Discount lowers the cost of our medical, pharmacy, dental, and mental health counseling services for people with lower earnings. If you are living with HIV, our health advocates will help you find programs to help pay for treatment and other services. Most Ohioans can get PAPI and other programs that cover the cost of PrEP and PrEP-related costs. What else can we help you with? Use MyChart to attend TeleHealth visits, contact your care team, keep track of appointments, and view lab results. MyChart about MyChart We define quality by how much we care, not how much we cost. From routine physicals to same-day sick care, we’re your partner on your health and wellness journey. Primary Care about Primary Care It’s your life and your HIV. At Equitas Health, we help you build a treatment plan that works for you. Not the other way around. HIV Specialty Care about HIV Specialty Care Whether you are in transition or beyond. We offer an individualized approach with a compassionate and experienced care team at your side. Gender Affirming Care about Gender Affirming Care Knowing is everything! Whether your result is negative or positive, your HIV/STI check can be the start of a new, healthy life. HIV/STI Testing & Sexual Health Clinics about HIV/STI Testing Life can be overwhelming, but you don’t have to go it alone. Our counselors are here to help you accept and address your challenges on your terms. Mental Health Counseling about Mental Health Counseling Are you concerned about your substance use? When you are ready to begin your recovery journey, we are ready to walk beside you. Recovery & Addiction about Recovery & Addiction Don’t know what you don’t know? View our full list of services and build your care team. You deserve access to quality, affordable, affirming care! Our Services about View All Services Vaccines can help you stay healthy. They also help stop the spread of disease and protect those around you. Our pharmacists can help you make sure you are protected. Learn More about Keep Up On Vaccinations If you or someone you know has been the victim of violence or threats, we can help make sure you are safe and find you the support you need. You are not alone. Find Support about Are You Safe?
