Learn More: Academic Tutoring What is Academic Tutoring? Academic tutoring is a form of teaching, one-on-one or in a small group, towards a specific goal. High-impact tutoring leads to substantial learning gains for students by supplementing (but not replacing) students’ classroom experiences. High-impact tutoring responds to individual needs and complements students’ existing curriculum. Research from the Annenberg Institute at Brown University recommends that academic tutoring programs 1) have tutors that are well-trained and supported, or are teachers, retired teachers, or teaching candidates; 2) have tutors that have time for planning and collaboration with classroom teachers; 3) offer tutoring at least three times per week, for 30 minutes per session (“high-dosage”); 4) align with an evidence-based curriculum; and 5) occur at school during the school day whenever possible. Technical assistance for academic tutoring at PSS is led by Accelerate and the National Student Support Accelerator. Why Implement Academic Tutoring? For years, families with financial means have hired tutors to support their children and help them through tough academic periods or catch up when they fall behind. In fact, approximately $47 billion was spent on tutoring in the US in 2020 (Global Industry Analysts, 2020). Recent research shows us why. Tutoring, when provided in high-dosage with a consistent tutor in small groups with instruction driven by data, has shown to provide substantial benefits for students (Nickow, Oreopoulos and Quan, 2020). When compared to other school-based interventions in high school math, such as technology support and professional development, high-impact tutoring results in over three times the learning gains with more than a year of additional learning for some programs (Cook et al, 2015; Lynch et al, 2019; Salvin et al, 2009). Rarely do we have so much evidence pointing to the promise of a specific approach. Researchers have performed over 150 random control trials showing positive effects of tutoring across grade levels and subject areas with effects ranging from half a year to more than a year of learning over one academic year of tutoring in most cases. For students from lower income families, tutoring is one of the most impactful educational approaches. A 2017 study examined interventions that aimed to improve the educational achievement for students from low socioeconomic backgrounds in elementary and middle school. Of all the interventions examined, tutoring was both the most common and the most effective (Dietrichson, Bøg, Filges, Klint Jørgensen, 2017). See Academic Tutoring In Action Learn More! Check out these essential resources from the National Student Support Accelerator! What is High-Impact Tutoring? High-Impact Tutoring: Higher Education Institution Playbook Toolkit for Tutoring Programs High-Impact Tutoring District Playbook PK - 8 Math Tutoring Resource Library Informational Briefs on Funding Tutoring Quality Improvement System Educator Guide: High Impact Tutoring Advocacy Tutor Recruitment Strategy Additional Resources The resources below provide additional information on academic tutoring. Why it Works: High-Impact Tutoring The Partnership for Student Success Read More Navigating Tutoring Options: Internal, External, or Hybrid The Center for Education Market Dynamics Read More Decisions, Decisions: Navigating Tutoring Options The Center for Education Market Dynamics Read More The Impressive Effects of Tutoring on PreK-12 Learning: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of the Experimental Evidence Andre Joshua Nickow, Philip Oreopoulous, Vincent Quan, Annenberg Institute at Brown University Read More Key Considerations for Designing High-Impact Tutoring Programs: Learning from NCLB Supplemental Education Services National Student Support Accelerator in Partnership Read More Tutoring Cost Calculator 2.0 National Student Support Accelerator Read More Leading for Actions: An Insight Report on K-12 Tutoring Programs The Center for Education Market Dynamics Read More Strategies for Using American Rescue Plan Funding to Address the Impact of Lost Instructional Time U.S. Department of Education Read More Early Lessons from Implementing High-Impact Tutoring at Scale Sara White, Megan Carey, Annie O’Donnell, Susanna Loeb, National Student Support Accelerator Read More Saga Education in Chicago Public Schools: High-dosage tutoring to improve student outcomes in math Results for America Read More Accelerating Student Learning with High-Dosage Tutoring EdResearch for Recovery, Carly Robinson, Mathew Kraft, and Susan Loeb, Annenberg Institute at Brown University Read More Promising Practices: High-Impact Tutoring: Saga Education National Center for Learning Disabilities Read More High-Impact Tutoring: Equitable and Effective Student Learning Acceleration National Student Support Accelerator Read More The Transformative Potential of Tutoring for PreK-12 Learning Outcomes: Lessons from Randomized Evaluations Summary of Findings Andre Joshua Nickow, Philip Oreopoulos, and Vincent Quan, J-PAL North America Read More Funding Tutoring Programs National Student Support Accelerator Read More Policy Considerations for Tutoring National Student Support Accelerator Read More Short Presentation of Evidence of Effectiveness and Characteristics of High-Impact Tutoring National Student Support Accelerator Read More Reference to any non-U.S. government organization, event or product does not constitute an endorsement, recommendation or favoring of that organization, event or product and is strictly for the information and convenience of the public. This website is developed and maintained by the Everyone Graduates Center at Johns Hopkins University for the National Partnership for Student Success. It follows the website privacy policy found here. View the website’s accessibility statement here.
