See details on these stories and more in a list of the top five most-read stories from Community Impact's Dallas-Fort Worth coverage areas from Nov. 17-21. 1. 215-acre Lavon Farms development in east Plano moves forward A project that would develop an east Plano dairy farm into 215 acres of homes, apartments, parks and more is one step away from final approval. Lavon Farms would feature 626 single-family residential units, 1,052 multifamily units and 37 acres of open space. The open space would include 10 acres of parks and a “Rural Preserve,” which will allow a section of the development to function as a micro farm and ranch. Find key details from Editor Michael Crouchley. 2. New 6,400-square-foot shopping center on Plano, Richardson border to be anchored by Dunkin’ A new retail development is currently under construction in south Plano near the Richardson border across Renner Road from Methodist Richardson Medical Center, Suzy Murff, Stonewood Investments project leasing and sales representative, said. The development will be anchored by Dunkin’, Murff said. Read here from Reporter Karen Chaney. 3. Check out 6 restaurants newly opened in the Dallas-Fort Worth area New restaurants from around the Dallas-Fort Worth area include a tea shop in Denton, a new Frisco noodle restaurant and new pizzerias in Plano and Roanoke. See details for these and more from Reporter Karen Chaney. 4. Bread Zeppelin expands footprint, all-you-can-eat sushi coming soon: 6 Dallas-Fort Worth restaurant updates Check out more food updates in the area, including an all-you-can-eat sushi concept and a restaurant featuring warm toasted baguettes filled with fresh salad. Read here from Reporter Hannah Johnson. 5. 5 housing developments updates in Grapevine, Colleyville and Southlake Take a look at some of the newest housing developments in the Grapevine, Colleyville and Southlake areas that are under construction or were recently approved by respective city councils. Take a closer look from Senior Reporter Cody Thorn.
