Beulah could get 2 new restaurants and a liquor store in new commercial center Beulah could be home to a new commercial center with two restaurants and a liquor store after a development proposal to Escambia County in late May. The potential project is named Trinity Wilds Commercial Center and its owner, Trinity Wild LLC, plans to build the plaza at 9200 Mobile Highway. The approximately 4-acre site is undeveloped and can be found near 9 Mile Urban Market on West Nine Mile Road. Site plans for the proposal show that developers want to build one standalone fast-food restaurant along with a multi-tenant building that will connect another restaurant to a liquor store. They plan to build a 2,635-square-foot space for the fast-food restaurant, the liquor store is proposed to have 11,442 square feet while the attached restaurant is planned to be a 7,248-square-foot venue. Potential occupants for these spaces aren’t available at this stage of the project. This project has not been approved by Escambia County at the time of writing, nor is it scheduled for review by the county’s Development Review Committee yet. If the proposal is approved, however, Trinity Wild will be able to capitalize on part of the land they’ve sought to develop for years. Escambia County property records show Trinity Wild bought two parcels in between Mobile Highway and West Nine Mile Road for $1.8 million in December 2021. Half a year later, they filed their first set of plans to develop the land. Trinity Wild initially wanted to build a mixed-use plaza that’d include condos alongside new businesses. In 2022, they filed plans to build 15 townhome-style condos, three different retail/service venues, a U-POP convenience store with a gas station and a restaurant with a rooftop bar. They also wanted to house one of the retail/service venues on the first floor of a four-story building that would have more condos from the second floor up. If this project had been approved, the residential section would have been developed on the westernmost parcel. Trinity Wild is only looking to develop the easternmost parcel with its latest proposal.
