Welcome to the Eater Twin Cities Heatmap, a collection of exciting new restaurants and pop-ups that have opened or reopened in the last six months or so. Minneapolis and St. Paul’s restaurant community continues to find creative ways to introduce diners to fantastic and unexpected food and drink. The Best New Restaurants in Minneapolis and St. Paul Right Now, November 2025 From a returning a swanky steakhouse to a barbecue contender, here’s where to eat all month long Welcome to the Eater Twin Cities Heatmap, a collection of exciting new restaurants and pop-ups that have opened or reopened in the last six months or so. Minneapolis and St. Paul’s restaurant community continues to find creative ways to introduce diners to fantastic and unexpected food and drink. The Heatmap is the perfect companion to the Eater 38 — a guide to the essential restaurants in the Twin Cities. For November, gelato and sandwiches fly into the 38th and Nicollet dining corner, a much-anticipated barbecue truck opens its brick-and-mortar, a Northeast favorite shifts into a more casual sports bar (and cinnamon roll!) concept, and a pandemic pizza pop-up settles into its permanent home. Leaving the list this month: Altera and Razava Bread Co. Be sure to keep track of all the notable restaurant openings and check out the Bar Heatmap for the latest drinking establishments around the Cities. — Additional reporting by Brenna Houck , Ashok Selvam , and Serena Maria Daniels The Best New Restaurants in Minneapolis and St. Paul Right Now, November 2025 From a returning a swanky steakhouse to a barbecue contender, here’s where to eat all month long Welcome to the Eater Twin Cities Heatmap, a collection of exciting new restaurants and pop-ups that have opened or reopened in the last six months or so. Minneapolis and St. Paul’s restaurant community continues to find creative ways to introduce diners to fantastic and unexpected food and drink. The Heatmap is the perfect companion to the Eater 38 — a guide to the essential restaurants in the Twin Cities. For November, gelato and sandwiches fly into the 38th and Nicollet dining corner, a much-anticipated barbecue truck opens its brick-and-mortar, a Northeast favorite shifts into a more casual sports bar (and cinnamon roll!) concept, and a pandemic pizza pop-up settles into its permanent home. Leaving the list this month: Altera and Razava Bread Co. Be sure to keep track of all the notable restaurant openings and check out the Bar Heatmap for the latest drinking establishments around the Cities. — Additional reporting by Brenna Houck , Ashok Selvam , and Serena Maria Daniels Animales Barbeque Co. Beloved local food truck Animales Barbeque opened its much-anticipated brick-and-mortar in the Bryn-Mawr neighborhood in late October, and it’s got a little something for everyone. The 12,500-square-foot space features a large stage, a colorful kids’ play area, a generously sized bar, booths, and community-style seating throughout, all set against a color-drenched backdrop. The essential barbecue — chopped pork shoulder, two styles of ribs, smoked pork belly, and more — is all accounted for, but the additions leave room for more diets and those who want to wash it all down with a little booze. Vegetarians can enjoy the cotija-flecked poblano-sauced green spaghetti, rich pimento dip, and smoky, creamy mac and cheese. There are also gluten- and dairy-free options, a smash burger, a hot dog, meat-topped salads, and desserts. The barbecue menu is served fresh daily from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m., or until it sells out — a regular occurrence — and the rest of the “anytime” menu is available during normal hours of operation. Jade Dynasty Two heavyweights in the region’s Asian dining scene joined forces to open Jade Dynasty in early January in the space formerly occupied by Fuji Ya. The owners, Chuen “Paul” Wu of downtown Minneapolis’ Cantonese restaurant Nankin and Eric Zeng of the original Hong Kong Noodles in Stadium Village, are behind the project. Their massive 60-page menu is made less daunting by the staff’s high level of service and winning suggestions. Find crispy, juicy Peking duck, dim sum galore (the har gow and shumai are go-tos), veggie dishes, and more. The space can easily accommodate larger groups with advance notice, and online ordering is available. North Star Deli While there are plenty of sports bars, how often do you find a sports sandwich spot? That’s the theme of North Star Deli, named after the former professional hockey team, which is covered with sports memorabilia. Panamanian chef Pedro Wolcott of the North Loop’s now-closed Guacaya Bistreaux has shifted from bayou-meets-Latinx food to stacked sandwiches — but the Southern flair isn’t completely gone. Bread is imported from New Orleans for the muffaletta and po’ boy (the former comes in a half or a hefty “full” size), and the local bakers at Patisserie 46 provide the bread for the stuffed sandwiches. Grab a gooey Zamboni Dip packed with shaved rib-eye and caramelized onions tucked in a crusty pistolet roll and slathered in horseradish mayo served with jus. The smoked salmon BLT — its richness cooled by avocado and brightened with a kick of wasabi mayo — is also worth considering. There are also soups, sandwiches, and a kid-friendly menu. Online ordering is available for pickup. St. Pierre Steak and Seafood Restaurateurs Isaac Becker and Nancy St. Pierre opened St. Pierre Steak and Seafood in March as an homage to their former restaurant, Burch Steak and Pizza, which closed in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The restaurant is situated in the space that previously housed another venture of Becker and St. Pierre’s, Snack Bar. While the restaurant doesn’t represent a full-scale revival, it features several menu items from both shuttered spots, including fried eggplant with rosemary honey and pici with pistachio and ricotta, about a half-dozen beef options sourced from Niman Ranch, as well as an extensive seafood menu, which includes specialties like coconut curry mussels; lobster cutlet with marinated hen of the woods; branzino with pleasantly bitter escarole and heirloom beans; and barramundi in crazy water. Little Bird Delicatessen Known for its high-end gelatos found at upscale spots around the Twin Cities, Little Bird is making its nest at the bustling food-forward corner of 38th and Nicollet. The new deli fills soft, crinkly-crusted rolls with piles of meat and veggies in flavor combinations that range from cold and familiar like the Eddie — filled with local smoked turkey, bacon, and avocado — to hot and comforting like the George, made with tender brisket and shaved tri-tip steak on a bed of caramelized onions, and dripping with provolone mixed with a layer of coleslaw. For vegetarians, there’s an herby falafel sandwich, a hearty farro bowl, and salad options. Most importantly, fans can find those signature gelatos here in pints (and, soon, scoops). Expect seasonal flavors like creamy butternut squash gelato, crowned with verdant, pepita-flecked maple brittle and tangy Meyer lemon sprinkled with crumbles of rosemary shortbread. As if that’s not enough, there’s an approachable kids’ menu, too. Meet Up Noodle Eat Street’s new noodle spot specializes in Northwestern Chinese flavors that spotlight warming spices and lots of lamb, influenced by the cultural and religious food traditions of the region. Cumin-dusted lamb is tucked into toasted flatbread, simmered in hearty stews, or served on platters flecked with tingly, numbing Sichuan peppercorns. The real star of the show, though, as the name implies, is the hand-pulled noodles. There’s a wide variety, served cold, spicy, stir-fried, “dry” sauced, or bathed in broth. The braised beef noodle soup is a favorite for its ultra-thick noodles, rich, savory, scallion-spiked broth, and spicy chile oil — a dish to clear out your sinuses. Pickup and delivery are available. Cafe Yoto This Japanese fast-casual cafe from chef Yo Hasegawa is finally open in the North Loop. Hasegawa made a splash in 2024 when he collaborated with longtime colleague and Kado No Mise chef Shigeyuki Furukawa on a two-night, walk-in-only pop-up called Yo Monday Cafe. The menu offers bowls of springy udon noodles made with a machine on-site and topped with options like karaage chicken or rib-eye, as well as rice dishes like the Kado don topped with sashimi and pickled radish. Other specialties include temaki, hand rolls, and a sticky-sweet eel fillet. Don’t skip the nonalcoholic beverages, which include a low-caffeine hojicha latte featuring nutty, toasted green tea, a beautifully layered strawberry matcha latte, and a refreshing yuzu shiso spritz. The space has a minimalist look and seating for about 65 visitors. Pikok Lounge at Minari Northeast’s Minari recently refreshed its lounge with a nod to the previous inhabitants, Erté & the Peacock Lounge, which shuttered in 2022. Explore small plates that range from $4 oysters up to $19 chicken wings. Go for a spiced-up familiar like a kimchi cheeseburger, or try glistening black squid-ink dumplings, a snow crab hand roll, or caviar-topped nuggets. While you can order cocktails from the Minari menu, the lounge’s drinks are a bit more playful. Kizzo A sports bar, a brunch spot, and (currently) an invite-only social club with a waitlist… who says you can’t have it all? Chef and owner Kamal Mohamed opened the space as the, but shut down his lush and plant-draped Stepchld in August to make way for Kizzo. The new spot centers on a laid-back, neighborhood vibe, and the pared-back menu reflects these changes, with a few carry-overs, too. The crispy, melty Cooper Burger is thankfully still on the menu, along with a new herby salmon smash burger and a vegan “cheeseburger.” Chicken wings, a spicy, honey-drizzled fried chicken sandwich, and vegan and gluten-free mushroom tacos round out the dinner menu. The new standout, however, is the Roll Ritual, on the all-day weekend brunch menu that features homemade cinnamon rolls in the classic style and flavors like ube cream cheese, carrot cake, and blueberry lemon. Moonflower Pizza at The French Hen Cafe While St. Paul’s French Hen is known for its French Creole daily brunches, its pandemic-originated project, Moonflower Pizza, is back from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. Thursday through Saturday. Cleverly named pies featuring local ingredients can be found on the menu, like the Freek a Leek (red sauce, homemade mozzarella, fennel sausage, cracked green olives, leeks, pecorino, fresh oregano); the Cajun Moon, with oyster mushrooms and studded with andouille sausage and pickled okra; and an eggy, breakfast-style Morning Glory, are showcased on the menu and cooked in the massive, brightly DIY-decorated pizza oven. Roasted veggies, salads, and wings enrobed in sticky pomegranate barbecue, Louisiana barbecue, and a dry rub are also on the menu, along with beer, wine, nonalcoholic beverages, and coffee. The Commodore Bar & Restaurant Cathedral Hill’s historic Prohibition-era bar and restaurant, the Commodore, is back in business after a five-year hiatus due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Bask in the glow of the mirrored walls and bona fide Art Deco atmosphere once haunted by famous regular, F. Scott Fitzgerald. Sip on a classic cocktail like a gimlet, martini, or Old Fashioned. Along with countless local liquor options, there is beer, wine, and a slimmed-down shareable snacks menu. Reservations are not accepted during the soft-opening phase. Palace Pub Wrecktangle’s exit earlier this year left a dining void next to Palace Theater. Fortunately, the gap was short-lived as Palace Pub has taken up the torch with classic, approachable bar fare like crispy, thin-crust pizzas, handhelds such as burgers and chicken sandwiches, tots, and wings Don’t skip dessert before (or after) your next show; there’s tiramisu, cookies and milk, and a root beer float. Score a deal during daily happy hour from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.: $2-off draft beers, well drinks, house wine, and appetizers. For late-night weekend shows, enjoy the full kitchen menu until midnight (or 11 p.m. on other days), with pizza slices available until midnight every night. For beverages, sip on cocktails, beer, wine, THC beverages, and nonalcoholic drinks. Xelas by El Sazon The chefs Cristian and Karen De Leon, who wowed the Cities with their acclaimed gas station taco stand, El Sazon, debuted their third restaurant in January — Xela’s by El Sazon in Stillwater. The menu offers modern interpretations of Mayan cuisine, blending Cristian’s Guatemalan heritage with Karen’s Mexican background by using Indigenous ingredients like corn, beans, squash, and cocoa, as well as traditional chiles and spices like achiote, and the chef’s expertise in French technique to inform the offerings. The tidy menu features artfully plated dishes traditional to the Mayan world, including a sikil pak — a Yucatán regional dish made with a black bean puree; cochinita pibil with pork shank and achiote paste; and a tuna ceviche featuring recado negro, which De Leon has compared to mole from Mexico. The dining area gives mellow but modern vibes with neutral tones and woodwork that help to soften the aesthetic of the space.
