23 New Businesses Now Open in Downtown Phoenix A new wave of businesses is bringing fresh energy to Downtown Phoenix, adding even more flair to the city’s ever-evolving sidewalk experience. In the past few months, 23 businesses have opened their doors, offering everything from cozy third spaces to innovative eateries, modern wellness services, and everything in between. *—Indicates Phoenix Community Alliance (PCA) Member Flour & Thyme Flour & Thyme is Chef Ivan Jacobo's love letter to Downtown Phoenix. This new concept occupies the former space of its big sister, Anhelo Restaurant, on the ground floor of Orpheum Lofts. Guests can expect the same level of attention to detail and elegance from Anhelo, just in a more relaxed atmosphere, with a menu featuring items from the garden, sea, and land. Details: 114 W. Adams St. Suite C103 flourandthymerestaurant.com Ricemill Ricemill, a modern Asian-inspired rice bowl concept, is set to debut a new location at 201 E. Washington on March 22. This innovative fast-casual eatery offers elevated rice bowls designed to meet the demands of busy working professionals, students, and families seeking customizable, authentic flavors and health-conscious options. Details: 201 E. Washington St. Suite 111 eatricemill.com Urban Edge Cycle + Fitness New to Arizona Center, this cycling and fitness studio is committed to providing a dynamic and energetic space for fitness enthusiasts of all levels. Urban Edge offers a unique blend of exercise modalities with an urban twist, creating an engaging and motivating environment for everyone. Details: 455 N. 3rd St. Unit 1205 urbanedgecyclefitness.com Casa de Julia This new restaurant in the historic Luhrs building honors Mexico's rich culinary heritage in every dish and aroma. Founded by Yasmine Rubio, Casa de Julia is inspired by and evokes the spirit of her Grandma Julia, and the cherished memories Yasmine holds from her childhood, creating an authentic and warm experience for all visitors. Details: 45 W. Jefferson St. Suite M casadejuliaphx.com Maddie B’s Chicago Style Gourmet Popcorn Chicago natives Michael and Bianca Dodd and their daughter, Maddie, are bringing the gourmet flavors of a fan-favorite snack from their hometown to Downtown Phoenix. Operating out of ACRES Marketplace, the Dodds make everything fresh and offer over twenty delicious popcorn flavors. Details: 610 E. Roosevelt St. maddiebspopcorn.com Saint Pasta Owner Racan Alhoch officially opened a brick-and-mortar location of his popular food truck in the space that formerly housed The Pairing Room and the larder & the delta. Saint Pasta’s menu includes some of the most popular dishes served at his food truck, along with new recipes and high-quality pasta sauces made in small batches. Details: 100 W. Portland St. saintpasta.com Industry Standard Nestled in the heart of Roosevelt Row, this new concept invites you to embark on a culinary journey that merges modern American and Asian fusion in a community-focused environment with exceptional hospitality. Details: 128 E. Roosevelt St. industrystandardaz.com Condesa Condesa recently opened a brand new space just 5 minutes away from Crescent Ballroom, where it operated for 13 years as Cocina 10. The new restaurant location, right next to Cornish Pasty Co. on Central Ave., serves all the beloved favorites Cocina 10 fans love, plus additional menu items and an expanded cocktail program. Don’t worry; you can still get burritos and donuts while watching your favorite bands at Condesa @ Crescent Ballroom, but for the full Condesa experience, visit them at the new spot. Details: 130 N. Central Ave. condesaphx.com Aroma India Look no further than Aroma India for authentic Indian cuisine in Downtown Phoenix. Curb your curry, biryani, or naan cravings at this popular eatery on the corner of 3rd and McKinley St. Their diverse menu also includes appetizers, desserts, and a hearty selection of vegetarian fare. Marlee’s Lemonade Marlee’s Lemonade is a family-operated, kid-owned business that started when Marlee was just 6 years old. Marlee, now 8, is not just selling lemonade; she’s teaching other kids that they can be entrepreneurs, too. Visit ACRES Marketplace to try some of her delicious fresh-squeezed, made-to-order lemonade. Details: 610 E. Roosevelt St. marleehere.com The Grind by Chic Chef Led by "Chic Chef" Nik Fields, this new café offers a third space for people to work, visit, and hang out. Experience the difference with their curated coffee selection, locally sourced treats, and an atmosphere designed to fuel productivity and inspiration. You can find The Grind in the former Serafina space of the historic Luhrs building. Generation Tux Generation Tux believes that life’s most memorable events should involve high-quality, convenient, and affordable options for men’s formalwear. Head to the corner of 4th and Pierce St. to explore their premium suits and tuxedos or visit their website to take advantage of services like delivery, home try-ons, swatches, styling tips, and more. Details: 700 N. 4th St. Suite 101 generationtux.com Someburros Arizona's favorite family-owned, fast-casual Mexican restaurant, Someburros, is making a grand slam debut at Chase Field just in time for the Diamondbacks' 2025 MLB season. Starting Opening Day, baseball fans can grab Someburros' fan-favorite burros, tacos, and mini chimis, along with exclusive ballpark-only bites like Someburros Stadium Nachos and Sonoran Peanuts. Someburros is located at Section 115 in the Main Concourse and Section 314 in the Upper Deck. Details: Chase Field - 401 E. Jefferson St. someburros.com Nail Snob Located on the ground floor of The Rey residential tower, Nail Snob specializes in various nail services, including gel manicures, acrylic nails, waterless gel pedicures, and more. Their talented technicians also excel in nail art, offering everything from intricate patterns to customized designs that reflect your personal style. Details: 400 N. 2nd Ave. nailsnobphx.com Junebug Coffee Originally from San Diego, this family-owned coffee shop has opened its doors to the Downtown Phoenix community. Junebug Coffee shares its space with the Nail Snob studio on the ground floor of The Rey residential tower. Element Jiu-Jitsu Master the art of Jiu-Jitsu or brush up on your self-defense skills at this Martial Arts School in the Arizona Center. Their team is dedicated to helping you achieve your personal goals through various classes like Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, Kids Jiu-Jitsu, No Gi Grappling, and open mat sessions. Details: 455 N. 3rd St. Suite 1140 elementjiujitsu.com Red Light District Bar & Lounge Ascend the staircase next to the Heard Building to find this new DTPHX hidden gem. Red Light District offers a classic speakeasy experience, including a full bar and lounge space with craft cocktails, hookah, live DJs, and more favorites. Eat the Rich The folks who brought you Killer Whale Sex Club and FYPM, Pour Bastards Hospitality, recently debuted their latest concept: Eat the Rich. Picture your classic neighborhood watering hole with 2013 prices. Head to the corner of Roosevelt and 5th St. to enjoy 100% beef hot dogs, cocktails, and country music in a nostalgic dive bar atmosphere. The Pemberton* Grand Re-Opening Downtown’s beloved community retreat, The Pemberton, is officially re-opening its doors. Their year-long hiatus was spent reimagining the space with a completely refreshed design curated by True North Studio. “Pemberton 2.0” offers streamlined services in its various “zones” of intimate dining arrangements and gathering areas that play with multicultural themes, ranging from Italian beach club and Tokyo Alley to Dia de los Muertos. Each environment offers a unique menu of elevated food-truck-style cuisine and cocktails that fit each concept. Details: 1121 N. 2nd St. thepemberton.com Kanfuela Kaffé Kanfuela Kaffé honors its Congolese roots by roasting organic specialty coffee sourced ethically from the Democratic Republic of Congo, Tanzania, and beyond. With "Kanfuela," meaning "coffee" in the Congo's Tshiluba language, Kanfuela’s founder's connection to coffee dates back decades and is woven into every bean. Visit them at the 850 PBC building to enjoy a cup of organic, African specialty coffee. Details: 850 N. 5th St. kanfuela.com Pilates 1st New to the 200 EVB building, Pilates 1st offers a balance of exercises that build strength and enhance flexibility to help you feel more energized, mindful, and empowered. Their instructors teach to all levels, adjusting the workouts based on individual goals, abilities, and limitations. Details: 200 E. Van Buren St. Suite 413 pilates1st.com Longevity Lab Longevity Lab is dedicated to helping you achieve a better quality of life through a body approach. Located on the corner of Washington and 1st St., they offer various wellness services, including stretch therapy, cold plunge, red light therapy, and more. Details: 1 N. 1st St. Suite 104 longevitylabaz.com The Ra Ra Room Now open inside PHX arena, The Ra Ra Room is an exclusive dining destination, marking the first-ever members-only private dining club within a sports and entertainment venue. This new spot is on the arena’s event level and is open during Suns games and every Thursday - Saturday. Details: 201 E. Jefferson St. therararoom.com Concepts Coming Soon to Downtown Phoenix Sana Sana Cerveceria A decade-long dream will soon become a reality with the opening of Sana Sana Cerveceria. Joining the Evans Churchill/ Roosevelt Row neighborhood, this new brewery will offer a welcoming environment for guests to enjoy craft cerveza while connecting with the local community. Details: 915 N. 4th St. sanasanacerveza.com Origen Arizona Center's dining scene is flourishing with the exciting addition of Origen. Currently under construction, this highly anticipated restaurant is transforming a prime ground-level space overlooking the Center’s lush grotto into an upscale Mexican dining experience. Details: 455 N. 3rd St. origengilbert.com Formation Brewing There's a new brewery on the horizon for Downtown's Evans Churchill/Roosevelt Row neighborhood. Originally based in Denver, CO, Formation Brewing aims to be a go-to local hotspot, where guests can enjoy craft brews and great food in a welcoming environment. The new multi-level space will feature a patio area and conversation pit, intentionally designed to foster community and connection among beer enthusiasts in DTPHX. Details: 925 N. 5th St. formationbrewing.com Indy by Industrious Coworking Space Soon to be part of the dynamic 201 E. Washington community, Indy by Industrious will offer shared coworking areas, private offices, and meeting rooms designed to support businesses of all sizes. This thoughtful workspace will also feature top-notch amenities to promote a comfortable and productive atmosphere. Details: 201 E. Washington St. 5th Floor industriousoffice.com Tacos los Vales Coming soon to the Downtown neighborhood near Chase Field, Tacos Los Vales will offer a casual eatery environment, serving classic Mexican cuisine, including tacos, birria, quesadillas, and more. Details: 310 S. 4th St. tacoslosvales.com Club Contact The popular DTPHX hangout spot, Gracie's Tax Bar, is introducing a sister concept to the neighborhood. The spinoff space, called Club Contact, will move into the historic building previously occupied by Thundercat Lounge. The community-driven space will feature a night club setting with live music, late nights, and more spirited festivities. Mentioned in this Post Red Light District Bar & Lounge 106 N Central Ave Pilates 1st 200 E Van Buren St Element Jiu-Jitsu 455 N 3rd St Industry Standard 128 E Roosevelt St Ricemill 201 E Washington St Condesa 130 N Central Ave Nail Snob 400 N 2nd Ave Casa de Julia 45 W Jefferson St The Pemberton 1121 N 2nd St Urban Edge Cycle + Fitness 400 E Van Buren St Flour & Thyme 114 W Adams St Longevity Lab 1 N 1st St
