Maybe you had to brush your teeth before you could watch TV growing up, or perhaps your dentist routinely shakes their head over your flossing habits. Whatever the reason, taking care of your oral hygiene can often feel like a chore. But even though it’s not exactly fun to get gunk out of your mouth, it’s one of those things that always makes you feel better after you’ve done it. And we think that with the right tools—like these 2024 Healthy Beauty Award winners for oral care—showing your teeth and gums some love can actually feel like a treat. Our testers brushed, rinsed, flossed, and whitened with some of the latest, most exciting products out there. In the end, only a handful came out on top, including a smart electric toothbrush, a sleek retainer cleaner, and a seriously zesty mouthwash. Below, you’ll find all of this year’s winners—get ready to say Ahh. Be sure to check out the rest of SELF’s 2024 Healthy Beauty Award winners here. Best Electric Toothbrush: Burst Oral Care Pro Sonic Toothbrush Why we love it: With enough smart features to feel like a true upgrade, but not too many that it’s overcomplicated or tedious to use, Burst’s Pro Sonic toothbrush hits a real sweet spot for anyone who wants to be a little more informed about their brushing. Its pressure sensor pauses the moment it feels you pressing too hard and won’t resume until you ease up. Its battery life is also impressive—our tester didn’t have to recharge it at all during the testing period. Bonus points, per the experts: Given their rapid, consistent brushing motion, electric toothbrushes can provide a more thorough cleaning than manual options. One tester said: “The pressure sensor has been extremely helpful. It’s training me to be gentler and better, generally, with my brushing the more I use it. Most importantly, though, the brush itself feels really, really good on my teeth. There’s a nub in the middle of the bristles that provides a nice massaging effect, and the bristles thoroughly clean my teeth (they feel supersmooth, even glossy, after every brush).” Best Travel Toothbrush: Aquasonic Icon Why we love it: The colorful Icon has its own carrying case, so it’s easy to bring along on your travels. And, given its price point, it’s also a great option for anyone who wants to try an electric toothbrush without making a major investment. One thing to note: According to the brand, you should use the same brushing technique that you would with a manual toothbrush to get the best results. One tester said: “I absolutely loved that it didn’t take too much space in my overnight bag and stayed very neat and tidy among my other products. Over time, I noticed how clean my teeth felt after brushing, which made me second-guess how well I was brushing previously! Overall, I’m a big fan and may be converted to an automatic brush.” Best Retainer Cleaner: Fresh Knight Sonic Fresh Ultrasonic Cleaner Why we love it: If hand-brushing or using cleaning tablets on your retainer doesn’t seem to do the trick, give the Sonic Fresh Ultrasonic retainer cleaner from Fresh Knight a try. This compact device just needs water to disinfect and deodorize retainers of most sizes, and it only takes five minutes to get the job done. Bonus points, per the experts: It’s important to clean your retainers regularly to prevent bacteria growth (which can cause bad breath). One tester said: “If you are still trying to make peace with your crusty, musty, decade-old retainer, you need this. It only took a few minutes to clean and came out looking super sparkly and fresh.” Best Toothpaste: Hello Vitamin C Whitening Toothpaste Why we love it: Hello’s Vitamin C Whitening toothpaste is formulated to both whiten teeth and keep them healthy. Its peppermint flavor is refreshing and invigorating, and, for especially sluggish morning brushers, the cheery orange tube doesn’t hurt, either. Bonus points, per the experts: This toothpaste contains fluoride, which can help strengthen teeth, reduce sensitivity, and prevent cavities. One tester said: “When I first tried this toothpaste, I was a little surprised to see it was orange! Fun. It doesn’t lather quite as much as other toothpastes, but it does just enough to feel like you’re getting clean. And it doesn’t leave a ton of frothy mess. In terms of the whitening element, it hasn’t made my teeth sensitive yet (big plus!).” Best Floss: Davids Expanding Dental Floss Why we love it: Neither poppy seeds nor spinach can hide from this unique floss, which expands to better reach and pull out any gunk between your teeth. It also earns points for its packaging: The main plastic container is reusable and you can purchase new floss refill spools when you run out. Bonus points, per the experts: Traditional string floss, like this one, is the best option for cleaning between your teeth. One tester said: “The expanding string works like magic and picks up more gunk than other dental floss without feeling too thick or uncomfortable between my teeth. Instead, it feels like typical dental floss when I use it, and afterward my mouth feels incredibly clean. (The results are sort of disgusting, but in the best way.)” Best Flossing Tool: Flaus Electric Flosser Why we love it: For a flosser that cleans well and quickly and actually looks nice on your bathroom counter, the Flaus is a great choice. It gets the job done within one minute and doesn’t make a mess in the process. Plus its heads are recyclable. One tester said: “This makes flossing 5,000% less miserable—there’s a vibrating head with three speeds that essentially does the flossing for you, and it cuts down a lot on time—specifically in having to, like, wiggle, scrape, curse yourself for dropping the floss and having to recut it and rewind it around your finger, etc. I will rebuy eternally.” Best Mouthwash: Listerine Clinical Solutions Gum Health Antiseptic Mouthwash Why we love it: Listerine called the flavor of this mouthwash Icy Mint, and meant it. Its sensation is beyond refreshing—it’s downright frigid, calming inflamed gums and drastically improving your breath. Even better, that cooling effect lasts long after you rinse. One tester said: “Despite the truly gums-blazing sensation I experience while this rinse is actually in my mouth, those incredibly intense 30 seconds are all worth it once it’s out and going down the drain. My gums, which are prone to inflammation, feel calmer, and my breath is fresh (even if I’ve had an especially garlicky meal).” Just so you know: There’s alcohol in this mouthwash, which can cause irritation and further dryness for people who have dry mouth. Best At-Home Teeth Whitener: Crest Daily Whitening Serum Why we love it: Finding a treatment that’s actually effective and as low-mess as this Crest’s serum is a major win in our book. Just dab it onto your teeth with the included applicator and wait a half hour before eating or drinking. Do that twice a day and you’ll notice that your teeth are shinier and whiter teeth within a couple weeks. Bonus points, per the experts: Crest uses hydrogen peroxide as the main ingredient in this serum, which is known to help remove stains on teeth. One tester said: “My teeth were noticeably whiter after I used it twice daily for two weeks. It even made the little chip that tends to be slightly darker on my left front tooth blend in more seamlessly. It’s affordable, it works, it’s easy, and it’s not unpleasant to use! Truly an unobtrusive and impactful product.”
