Austria / Österreich Bosnia and Herzegovina / Босна и Херцеговина Bulgaria / България Croatia / Hrvatska Czech Republic & Slovakia / Česká republika & Slovensko France / France Germany / Deutschland Greece / ΕΛΛΑΔΑ Hungary / Hungary Italy / Italia Netherlands / Nederland Nordic / Nordic Poland / Polska Portugal / Portugal Romania & Moldova / România & Moldova Slovenia / Slovenija Serbia & Montenegro / Србија и Црна Гора Spain / España Switzerland / Schweiz Turkey / Türkiye UK & Ireland / UK & Ireland Dental News Insurance data indicates rise in specialist endodontic care in US CHICAGO, US: New data from the American Association of Endodontists indicates that more patients in the US are being referred to endodontists for complex ... DSO perspectives: Part 3―building resilient dental teams If there is one thing that dentistry has taught me, it is that the ability to read people will take a clinician further than any continuing education course... New resources help dentists identify patients at risk of cardiovascular disease DALLAS, US: Government survey data from 2019 shows that approximately 29 million Americans see a dentist annually but not another medical professional, ... Dental hygiene students to face financial barriers as loan caps tighten in the US CHICAGO, US: The US Department of Education’s Reimagining and Improving Student Education Committee has recently reached consensus on the full package of ... Henry Schein and vVARDIS expand distribution agreement MELVILLE, N.Y., US: Henry Schein has announced the expansion of its agreement with Swiss company vVARDIS, granting the company exclusive US distribution ... New US study finds recommended fluoride levels linked to better teen cognitive performance MINNEAPOLIS, US: Since the election of Donald Trump as US president in 2024, the question of water fluoridation in the country has become increasingly ... Henry Schein One unveils natively embedded voice workflow at 2025 GNYDM AMERICAN FORK, Utah, US: Following the announcement of its collaboration with Amazon Web Services, Henry Schein One has unveiled its embedded artificial ... Prenatal stress linked to earlier tooth eruption ROCHESTER, N.Y., US: In what is thought to be the first study to directly link prenatal stress hormones with primary tooth eruption, researchers in the US ... Dentistry shines brightly at the 101st Greater New York Dental Meeting The Rockettes will be kicking, the Rockefeller Center Christmas tree will be up, and the smiles will be shining brightly as the 101st Annual Greater New ... Optimising oral health outcomes for cancer patients: A clinician’s guide to prevention and management As dental professionals, we have all had that gut-wrenching moment when a cancer patient walks through our door mid-treatment. Their mouths are full of ... Save the date for Yankee Dental Congress, coming Jan. 29 to Boston Registration is now open for the Yankee Dental Congress, set to take place Jan. 29 to 31 at the Thomas Michael Menino Convention and Exhibition Center in ... New study shows root canal treatment improves patients’ quality of life A new study published in the Journal of Endodontics has shown that patients experience meaningful improvements in comfort, chewing function and overall ... Registration now open for THRIVELIVE 2026: The ultimate dental team retreat returns to Las Vegas Get ready for an unforgettable experience — THRIVELIVE 2026 is coming to Resorts World Las Vegas from April 29 to May 2. This isn’t just another dental... Dentsply Sirona: Advancing endodontics through evidence, quality and innovation CHARLOTTE, N.C., US: With a heritage of more than 150 years in dentistry, Dentsply Sirona is highlighting trust as a central theme in its endodontic ... New FDA action reshapes paediatric fluoride policy in the US SILVER SPRING, Md., US: The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has announced new enforcement actions to restrict the sale of ingestible fluoride drug ... Getting started with CEREC: Cloud workflow made simple CHARLOTTE, N.C., US: CEREC on DS Core simplifies chairside workflows for teams new to digital dentistry. The cloud-based approach supports starting with ... Henry Schein One and AWS collaborate to transform global dentistry with generative AI AMERICAN FORK, Utah, US: Henry Schein One, a leading global provider of dental technology, today announced a new partnership with Amazon Web Services (AWS),... Exocad announces participation at 2025 GNYDM DAMRSTADT, Germany: Exocad, an Align Technology company and a leading dental CAD/CAM software provider, has announced its participation at the 101st Greater... Registration opens for 2026 CDS Midwinter Meeting CHICAGO, US: The Chicago Dental Society (CDS) has opened registration for next year’s Midwinter Meeting, to be held at McCormick Place West in Chicago ... New studies link oral health to cerebrovascular health COLUMBIA, S.C., US: Growing evidence continues to demonstrate the far-reaching impact of oral health on systemic well-being. Just recently, two new studies ... “Menopause and its associated hormonal changes can make life extremely difficult” Dr John Viviano, a dentist and credentialled diplomate of the American Board of Dental Sleep Medicine, has dedicated his career to managing sleep ... ADS announces opening of 2026 Dental Infection Control Boot Camp registration The Association for Dental Safety (ADS) has opened registration for its 2026 Dental Infection Control Boot Camp. Boot Camp is an intensive course designed ... Zinc compound offers non-staining alternative to silver diamine fluoride NEW YORK, US: Although silver diamine fluoride remains an effective non-invasive option for treating caries, its characteristic black staining is a major ... OrthoFX announces a new AirFlex feature for optimising aligner therapy FREMONT, Calif., US: For many orthodontists, obtaining optimal tooth alignment and managing final detailing are persistent challenges in aligner therapy. ... Dentists urged to take a front-line role in tackling intimate partner violence PHILADELPHIA, US: A new advisory paper calls on dental professionals to recognise their pivotal role in identifying and supporting those who have suffered ... Academy of General Dentistry releases four new podcast episodes for dental professionals The Academy of General Dentistry (AGD) has released four new episodes of its podcast series, offering dental professionals’ timely insights on practice ... Researchers lead landmark study to transform jaw pain treatment PITTSBURGH, US: A new US$17 million research initiative led by the University of Pittsburgh is set to revolutionise understanding and treatment of ... AAE wins fifth Silver Trumpet Award for ‘Hockey Smile / Saving Your Teeth’ influencer campaign The American Association of Endodontists (AAE) is thrilled to announce it has secured its fifth Silver Trumpet Award from the Publicity Club of Chicago ... Dentsply Sirona and Pearl partner to deliver AI-assisted radiographic support CHARLOTTE, N.C., US: Dentsply Sirona, the world’s largest diversified manufacturer of dental products and solutions, and Pearl, a leader in dental ... One in three young adults in the US skip dental visits, study shows BOSTON, US: In the US, dental care remains largely excluded from medical insurance and separated from public health initiatives that promote prevention. A ...
