Inception, a G42 company that provides AI solutions, has entered a strategic partnership with McKinsey & Company aimed at enhancing board and executive effectiveness through the power of AI. Comment Hot on the heels of expanding into Saudi Arabia, strategy consulting firm Altman Solon has doubled down on its Middle East ambitions with the launch of a new office in Dubai. The new Dubai hub becomes Altman Solon’s 17th worldwide and follows the US-headquartered firm’s recent expansion into Riyadh just weeks ago, and Stockholm a few months earlier. “Dubai’s role as a global business hub offers unparalleled connectivity, operational efficiency, and access to top talent, making it an ideal location to support client projects across the GCC, Levant, and Africa,” said Björn Menden, partner at Altman Solon. “The Dubai hub complements our Riyadh office, which remains central to our regional strategy, particularly in alignment with Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030. Together, the two offices ensure that our experts can deliver tailored solutions while staying close to our clients.” Established in 2020 through a merger of an American consultancy with a European counterpart, Altman Solon advises C-suite leaders on corporate strategy, market entry, product development, mergers & acquisitions, and operational improvements. The firm has an exclusive focus on the TMT landscape – telecommunications, media, and technology. “The Middle East is one of the fastest-growing regions for media, sports, and digital platforms,” said partner Andreas Tiefengraber. “Our Dubai office positions us to help clients seize opportunities across content, advertising, and monetization, while applying global best practices to local markets.” Lukasz Nowicki, an Associate Partner at the consulting firm, added: “Our new office strengthens our ability to serve the region’s technology and infrastructure sectors, sovereign wealth funds, and international investors. With teams now in both Riyadh and Dubai, we can better support clients on growth strategies, AI adoption, mergers & acquisitions, and strategic partnerships.” Other members of the senior team in the Middle East include Osama Al-Dosary (senior advisor), who previously served as President and CEO of telecom operator Salam, and as Deputy Minister for Communication Infrastructure in Saudi Arabia. Earlier in his career, he held leadership roles at VMware and Cisco. In the coming months, Altman Solon plans to expand its local team with senior leaders and local hires. Sourced from Consultancy-me.com Comment International management consulting firm CYLAD has opened a new office in Austria, its tenth location worldwide. Comment Proudfoot has joined the global consulting network Nextcontinent as its newest ‘citizen’, strengthening Nextcontinent’s presence in the US and international markets while extending Proudfoot’s global reach. Comment Across the GCC, many support functions face a common challenge – they are often viewed as operational cost centres rather than as enablers of strategic goals. Rami Fattal, Director at Knowledge Group Consulting, explains how leaders can reposition their support departments as strategic partners by focusing on operational excellence and capability building. Comment Saudi Arabia is accelerating the development of its mining sector as a central pillar of economic diversification, with the Kingdom’s mineral wealth now estimated at SR9.4 trillion ($2.5 trillion). Comment Mercer Germany has started approaching clients across the DACH region with a joint consultancy offering developed in partnership with Vienna-based SLG Treasury. Comment Argon & Co, the global management consultancy specialising in operations strategy and transformation, is pleased to announce the arrival of new UK Partner, Amanda Khalaf. Comment A new study from IBM (NYSE: IBM) reveals enterprises across Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) are already reporting significant productivity gains from using AI, with many expecting returns on their investments (ROI) within the next year. Comment Global management consulting firm Oliver Wyman has appointed Kaustav Mukherjee as a Partner in its Energy & Natural Resources practice. Kaustav Mukherjee has over 35 years of experience across the energy value chain, with more than 22 years dedicated to consulting. Prior to Oliver Wyman, Mukherjee spent over a dozen years at Boston Consulting Group as a Senior Partner & Managing Director, and before that, he spent over a decade at Kearney. Throughout his career, he has worked closely with governments, regulators, and industry leaders to address some of the most complex issues in energy, oil & gas, utilities, renewables, petrochemicals, and process industries. His work spanned topics such as policy formulation, market design, regulatory reforms, mergers & acquisitions, large-scale transformations, and energy transition. At Oliver Wyman, Mukherjee will play a vital role in strengthening the firm’s Energy & Natural Resources practice, expanding business development opportunities, building local capabilities, mentoring teams, and developing the next generation of leaders. He will also have client-focused responsibilities. “We are delighted to welcome Kaustav to Oliver Wyman. His deep sector expertise, combined with his ability to bring clarity and pragmatism to complex challenges, will be invaluable as we support clients navigating energy transition at speed and scale. Kaustav’s leadership strengthens our commitment to building an Energy & Natural Resources practice in India and across the region,” said Sumit Sarawgi, India Head at Oliver Wyman. The energy transition in India Sharing his views on the energy sector in India, Mukherjee said in a statement, “India is at the centre of the energy transition. The challenge lies in scaling affordable, reliable energy while designing resilient systems – from sourcing and refining to mobility infrastructure, power distribution, grids, and storage – that integrate renewables without compromising affordable access for billions.” “This must all be achieved against a backdrop of uncertain geopolitics, supply chain risks, sanctions, and contested access to critical minerals. Leadership will come to countries that recognise energy, food, and national security as interdependent elements of a single system.” “India can convert ambition into enduring advantage by pairing decisive policy reforms with scaled deployment of new platforms – from green hydrogen and innovative storage to sustainable agriculture. Its moment is now. I am excited to join Oliver Wyman and work alongside enterprising leaders to unlock transformative solutions as we help reimagine the future of energy.” Sourced from Consultancy.in Comment For organisations with ambitious growth plans, managing transformation effectively is just as important as the transformation itself. Consulting Point notes that many organisations struggle to coordinate multiple change initiatives across departments, often because governance, prioritisation and strategic alignment are not fully embedded. Comment CGI , one of the largest independent IT and business consulting services firms in the world, announced that its wholly owned Polish subsidiary, CGI Information Systems and Management Consultants (Polska) sp. z o.o. has entered into a conditional agreement to acquire Comarch Polska SA, a subsidiary of Comarch SA, specialising in IT solutions for public administration. Comment EY-Parthenon, the strategy consulting arm of EY, has acquired Eden Strategy Institute, a strategic boutique based in Singapore. Comment Arthur D. Little (ADL) announced the appointment of Eric Bach as a Partner in its Consumer Goods, Retail & Agribusiness (CORA) network. Based in ADL’s Paris office, he will lead the development of our business in the Consumer Goods sector with a focus on commercial transformation projects. Comment The growing risk of unmanaged AI adoption Professional services firms are embracing AI to improve efficiency and client delivery. Yet many are implementing it faster than they can control it. Without strong governance, AI becomes a closed system that leaders struggle to monitor, explain or regulate. The result is greater risk to compliance, confidentiality and client trust. Shadow AI, where staff use unapproved tools such as ChatGPT for daily work, has become increasingly common. It often begins with good intentions such as drafting client emails or summarising reports. However, once sensitive data is entered into public models, the firm loses control over information security and data protection. Comment MDD, a global forensic consulting firm, has launched a new office in Taiwan – its eighth location in the Asia-Pacific region. Comment McKinsey describes AI as a double-edged sword: it offers banks the potential to cut operating costs, yet could also disrupt traditional profit pools as customers use AI tools to manage their finances more efficiently. Comment U.S. health systems are making primary care a strategic cornerstone of their transformation efforts, according to Bain & Company’s 2025 Primary Care at Health Systems Survey. Comment Kyndryl (NYSE: KD), a leading provider of mission-critical enterprise technology services, has been named one of America's Top 100 Most Loved Workplaces® by the Wall Street Journal. Comment Fossil fuels aren’t going anywhere. Oil, natural gas, and coal are set to represent about half of global energy consumption in 2050 and beyond, according to the tenth annual McKinsey report, which showed the biggest shift in the consultancy’s thinking on energy systems in a decade. Comment
