If you’re planning to buy a new smartphone and want it delivered before Christmas, this list is worth checking out. We’ve rounded up some attractive deals on Google Pixel phones on Amazon UK, which... Motorola is the official smartphone partner of the 2026 FIFA World Cup, which begins on June 11 and will be hosted by Canada, Mexico, and the US. To celebrate that partnership, Motorola could launch... Oppo is fully unveiling the Pad Air5 tablet on December 25, and ahead of that the brand has revealed some details about it today, including its design, which you can see in the official images... This is the Redmi Note 15 5G. It sits just above the Redmi Note 15 (4G) in the lineup, and below the three Pro models. It ships with a 45W charger, a USB-A to USB-C cable, and a case. You can get... A few days ago, Li Jie, President of OnePlus China, confirmed that the brand is working on a new lineup called Turbo. This was rumored before, and according to Li, the first device in the line would... Samsung launched the Galaxy XR headset back in October, and today the repairability experts over at iFixit have taken one apart, revealing its innards for us all to see in the video embedded... This is the freshly announced OnePlus Pad Go 2 and it's the maker's affordable global tablet. It ships in Lavender Drift and Shadow Black and costs £320/€350/₹27,000 for the base 8-128GB Wi-Fi... Earlier today, Samsung unveiled the Exynos 2600 chipset, which has been rumored to be powering the upcoming Galaxy S26 devices in at least one country. Now a new report from Korea claims Samsung... A little over a week ago we first heard that vivo is working on the X200T, and today its full list of specs has purportedly been leaked. The phone allegedly comes with a 6.67-inch flat LTPS OLED... The Redmi Note 15 5G became official for markets outside of China yesterday, but it apparently still has a way to go until it reaches India. Following up on its very extensive teaser campaign for the... Earlier today, Samsung made the Exynos 2600 chipset official, and this will be featured in some members of the upcoming Galaxy S26 family in some markets. Covering the event, a Korean publication... Oppo already launched the Reno15 and Reno15 Pro in China, but we've been hearing a lot of rumors about a Reno15 Pro Max as well, and that one still isn't official. That could change soon, as it may... The brand-new OnePlus 15R is the latest device to get the teardown treatment from PBKreviews. The companion to the OnePlus 15 comes with a nearly identical design to its flagship sibling and the... A few days ago, Realme announced it would unveil the Realme 16 Pro series on January 6, 2026. Today, the company announced it will launch the lineup in India on the same day at 12 PM IST. Tested... Honor’s Magic V5 was one of the premier foldables of the past year, and we now have some preliminary specs for its successor – the Magic V6. Tipster Digital Chat Station revealed some key spec for... The OnePlus 15, which was unveiled in October in China, made its international debut over a month ago, but its US launch was delayed due to the government shutdown. The OnePlus 15 went on pre-order... Samsung’s Exynos 2600 SoC is now official. After confirming its existence recently, Samsung has fully unveiled its latest flagship mobile chipset. Built on Samsung Foundry’s 2nm GAA process, the... The Ultrahuman Ring Air has gained the ability to track snoring as well as general respiratory health. This is made possible by Health PowerPlug, a proprietary technology that analyzes audio along... OnePlus fully unveiled the 15R and Pad Go 2 yesterday, and today the company is already sending out their first software updates. These will be received by buyers right as they take their new devices... The Redmi Note 15 series by Xiaomi is going global, and we've got all five units at the office and in for review. Let's unbox the Redmi Note 15 Pro (this is the 4G model). @gsmarenateam Redmi... If you’re planning to buy a new smartphone and want it delivered before Christmas, this list is worth checking out. We’ve rounded up some attractive deals on Google Pixel phones on Amazon UK, which... Motorola is the official smartphone partner of the 2026 FIFA World Cup, which begins on June 11 and will be hosted by Canada, Mexico, and the US. To celebrate that partnership, Motorola could launch... Oppo is fully unveiling the Pad Air5 tablet on December 25, and ahead of that the brand has revealed some details about it today, including its design, which you can see in the official images... This is the Redmi Note 15 5G. It sits just above the Redmi Note 15 (4G) in the lineup, and below the three Pro models. It ships with a 45W charger, a USB-A to USB-C cable, and a case. You can get... A few days ago, Li Jie, President of OnePlus China, confirmed that the brand is working on a new lineup called Turbo. This was rumored before, and according to Li, the first device in the line would... Samsung launched the Galaxy XR headset back in October, and today the repairability experts over at iFixit have taken one apart, revealing its innards for us all to see in the video embedded... This is the freshly announced OnePlus Pad Go 2 and it's the maker's affordable global tablet. It ships in Lavender Drift and Shadow Black and costs £320/€350/₹27,000 for the base 8-128GB Wi-Fi... Earlier today, Samsung unveiled the Exynos 2600 chipset, which has been rumored to be powering the upcoming Galaxy S26 devices in at least one country. Now a new report from Korea claims Samsung... A little over a week ago we first heard that vivo is working on the X200T, and today its full list of specs has purportedly been leaked. The phone allegedly comes with a 6.67-inch flat LTPS OLED... The Redmi Note 15 5G became official for markets outside of China yesterday, but it apparently still has a way to go until it reaches India. Following up on its very extensive teaser campaign for the... Earlier today, Samsung made the Exynos 2600 chipset official, and this will be featured in some members of the upcoming Galaxy S26 family in some markets. Covering the event, a Korean publication... Oppo already launched the Reno15 and Reno15 Pro in China, but we've been hearing a lot of rumors about a Reno15 Pro Max as well, and that one still isn't official. That could change soon, as it may... The brand-new OnePlus 15R is the latest device to get the teardown treatment from PBKreviews. The companion to the OnePlus 15 comes with a nearly identical design to its flagship sibling and the... A few days ago, Realme announced it would unveil the Realme 16 Pro series on January 6, 2026. Today, the company announced it will launch the lineup in India on the same day at 12 PM IST. Tested... Honor’s Magic V5 was one of the premier foldables of the past year, and we now have some preliminary specs for its successor – the Magic V6. Tipster Digital Chat Station revealed some key spec for... The OnePlus 15, which was unveiled in October in China, made its international debut over a month ago, but its US launch was delayed due to the government shutdown. The OnePlus 15 went on pre-order... Samsung’s Exynos 2600 SoC is now official. After confirming its existence recently, Samsung has fully unveiled its latest flagship mobile chipset. Built on Samsung Foundry’s 2nm GAA process, the... The Ultrahuman Ring Air has gained the ability to track snoring as well as general respiratory health. This is made possible by Health PowerPlug, a proprietary technology that analyzes audio along... OnePlus fully unveiled the 15R and Pad Go 2 yesterday, and today the company is already sending out their first software updates. These will be received by buyers right as they take their new devices... The Redmi Note 15 series by Xiaomi is going global, and we've got all five units at the office and in for review. Let's unbox the Redmi Note 15 Pro (this is the 4G model). @gsmarenateam Redmi...
