Cloud House passes bill that could fast-track AI infrastructure projects The SPEED Act aims to cut red tape in order to meet soaring energy demand and growing competition in the global AI race, according to the bill’s sponsors. By Makenzie Holland • Dec. 19, 2025 IBM releases SAP tool as migration deadline looms Fueled by generative and agentic AI, the IBM Consulting Application Management Suite for SAP aims to simplify the transition to S/4HANA. By Makenzie Holland • Dec. 16, 2025 Trendline Digital transformation Digital transformation goes beyond technology — if companies want to engage in a new era of technology, they must rethink how work is done too. By CIO Dive staff Oracle defends infrastructure spending spree amid mounting AI demand The company raised its fiscal year capital investments forecast by $15 billion as its cloud backlog surpassed $500 billion. By Matt Ashare • Dec. 11, 2025 Snowflake deepens partnerships as customer AI use ticks up As enterprises seek to build AI agents, vendors are partnering to expand data access, interoperability and AI functionality. By Makenzie Holland • Dec. 4, 2025 SAP deploys EU AI Cloud in latest push for data sovereignty The ERP giant has been working to expand EU-based compute capacity, having pledged more than $20 billion to the effort in September. By Makenzie Holland • Dec. 2, 2025 AWS, Google link up to ease multicloud deployments Microsoft Azure will also join the service in 2026. It's the latest hyperscaler move to ease interoperability. By Makenzie Holland • Dec. 1, 2025 Nvidia shows strong AI demand as enterprises grapple with ROI The company sustained its streak of record revenue growth in Q3, propelled by massive AI infrastructure investments from hyperscalers and model developers. By Makenzie Holland • Nov. 20, 2025 EU plans to pull back on digital regulations The new policy package would streamline AI, data and cybersecurity rules for European businesses and defer EU AI Act enforcement by 16 months. By Makenzie Holland • Nov. 19, 2025 EU regulators launch trio of cloud market probes Microsoft Azure and AWS don’t meet gatekeeper thresholds under the EU’s Digital Markets Act. The European Commission is assessing whether they should still qualify. By Makenzie Holland • Nov. 18, 2025 Sponsored by Wind River Rethinking Cloud Infrastructure in the Post-VMware Era For those still tied to VMware’s licensing model, the pressure to optimize resources and control costs has become a critical concern. By Paul Miller, Chief Technology Officer, Wind River • Nov. 17, 2025 SAP addresses EU’s competition concerns The ERP vendor defended its platform maintenance and support policies as standard industry practices but still committed to a series of changes. By Makenzie Holland • Nov. 14, 2025 Broadcom launches open ecosystem for VMware Cloud Foundation The move comes nearly two years after Broadcom acquired VMware and aligns with its plans to present VCF as a private cloud alternative to hyperscalers. By Makenzie Holland • Nov. 13, 2025 Regulatory risks push cloud leaders to alter infrastructure plans Hybrid cloud strategies will keep gaining momentum as IT leaders balance innovation with local data requirements. By Makenzie Holland • Nov. 12, 2025 Banks turn to AI supervisors as agent use surges Financial institutions are rapidly deploying AI agents in pursuit of billions in economic value, according to Capgemini. By Makenzie Holland • Nov. 12, 2025 SAP, Snowflake partner to unite cloud products Users of SAP's Business Data Cloud will be able to access Snowflake’s AI and data platform as part of the collaboration announced Tuesday. By Makenzie Holland • Nov. 5, 2025 Clorox blames Q1 sales drop on elongated ERP overhaul The company says the majority of the implementation is complete as executives shift focus to rebuilding momentum. By Lindsey Wilkinson • Nov. 4, 2025 OpenAI, AWS sign $38B compute deal The agreement marks the first major hyperscaler infrastructure partnership announced by the AI company since its corporate restructuring. By Makenzie Holland • Nov. 3, 2025 AWS revenue jumps 20% to $33B in third quarter The uptick in growth might indicate that CIOs are moving from a cost savings to a project investment mindset, according to one analyst. By Makenzie Holland • Oct. 31, 2025 Microsoft reports $49B in cloud revenue despite capacity woes In the midst of an outage, Microsoft’s CFO reported that its Azure revenue growth was hampered by a capacity shortage that will continue throughout its fiscal 2026. By Lindsey Wilkinson • Oct. 30, 2025 Amazon cuts 14K jobs in AI-fueled reorganization The company said the layoffs will result in a leaner structure as it responds to broader market changes driven by AI adoption. By Roberto Torres • Oct. 28, 2025 4 tips for evaluating cloud AI providers Leaning into vendor relationships and considering the AI environments best tied to business goals can help shape an effective cloud AI strategy, according to Gartner. By Makenzie Holland • Oct. 28, 2025 Sponsored by Wind River Evolving cloud strategy: Why sovereignty and regional autonomy matter more than ever The significance of sovereignty and regional autonomy is increasingly critical in today's digital landscape. By Sandeep Modhvadia, Chief Product Officer, Wind River • Oct. 27, 2025 SAP focuses on cloud gains, touts agentic AI plan Executives pointed to the company’s cloud revenue as an indicator of future growth as customers adopt products across the SAP Business Suite. By Makenzie Holland • Oct. 23, 2025 AI shapes cloud spend amid adoption efforts AI adoption is increasing enterprise cloud spending, pushing CIOs to balance cost management with multicloud strategies and energy-intensive infrastructure. By Makenzie Holland • Oct. 21, 2025 AWS outage puts spotlight on IT durability The downtime serves as a reminder to CIOs that recovery strategies separate from their primary cloud vendor are key to business continuity. By Roberto Torres • Oct. 20, 2025
