AI goes from tool to teammate: Amazon Web Services SVP Colleen Aubrey on the dawn of agentic work AI “teammates,” faster product development, and a pivot in Amazon’s applied-AI strategy: AWS SVP Colleen Aubrey joins the GeekWire Podcast to explain how agentic systems are reshaping how Amazon builds software. Read More AWS re:Invent preview: What’s at stake for Amazon at its big cloud confab this year Amazon faces a critical test at AWS re:Invent this week: showing that its heavy AI investments can pay off as Microsoft and Google gain ground in the cloud. Read More What is an AI ‘superfactory’? Microsoft unveils new approach to building and linking data centers Microsoft unveiled its first AI “superfactory,” linking data centers in Wisconsin and Atlanta through a high-speed fiber network. It will use hundreds of thousands of Nvidia GPUs to train and run advanced AI models for key Microsoft partners such as OpenAI, and for Microsoft’s own internal models. Read More OpenAI’s $38B cloud deal with Amazon takes ChatGPT maker further beyond Microsoft In a major expansion of its cloud partnerships, OpenAI signed a $38 billion deal with Amazon Web Services to train and run future AI models, reflecting both the scale of the AI boom and the increasingly complex ties among the industry’s biggest players. Read More Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella shakes up his own job, taps veteran exec as CEO of commercial business Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella is handing off day-to-day commercial execution to longtime sales chief Judson Althoff, who takes on the new role of CEO of commercial business. The change frees Nadella to focus more on AI and long-term technology bets. Read More Generative AI tops cybersecurity in 2025 tech budget priorities, new AWS study finds Generative AI will surpass cybersecurity in many corporate tech budgets this year — with 45% of global IT leaders naming… Read More Amazon enters real-time AI voice race with Nova Sonic, a unified voice model that senses emotion What happens when the AI senses the frustration or joy in your voice? A new speech-to-speech AI model from Amazon,… Read More Amazon’s new quantum chip joins race to enable next era of computing Amazon unveiled a prototype quantum processor with a novel architecture that promises to significantly reduce the resources required to unlock… Read More Amazon Web Services focuses on optimizing artificial intelligence in space Artificial intelligence and machine learning are turning into requirements for space operations, and Amazon Web Services is optimizing its products… Read More Podcast Podcast: Amazon, AI, and the cloud — a reality check, with Corey Quinn of ‘Last Week in AWS’ Amazon CEO Andy Jassy sounded more bullish than ever about the potential for artificial intelligence on the company’s earnings call… Read More Amazon on pace for $100B+ in yearly capex; Jassy expects cost efficiencies to drive AI demand Amazon reported $26.3 billion in capital expenditures in the fourth quarter, and the company plans to keep spending at that… Read More Amazon’s quarterly profits soar to a record $20 billion, but cloud growth comes up short Amazon beat Wall Street’s overall expectations with $187.8 billion in net sales, up 10%, and came in well ahead on… Read More Amazon earnings preview: AWS cloud growth, AI demand, trade wars among key issues to watch Amazon’s cloud growth rate has been increasing steadily in recent quarters, and investors are looking for the trend to continue… Read More Amazon expands Bedrock with new AI model marketplace, a day after unveiling its own ‘Nova’ LAS VEGAS — Unveiling Amazon’s homegrown Nova artificial intelligence models yesterday, Amazon CEO Andy Jassy made a point of saying… Read More ‘An easy button to get off Windows’: Amazon’s new AI moves Microsoft apps to Linux LAS VEGAS — Amazon has a new use for AI: dumping Microsoft Windows. At the Amazon Web Services re:Invent conference… Read More Amazon hires former Microsoft and SAP exec Julia White as new AWS marketing chief Julia White, a longtime Microsoft executive who spent the past four years at SAP, has been named the chief marketing… Read More AWS tops $10B in quarterly operating profits as Jassy cites ‘reacceleration’ of cloud business Amazon’s cloud business isn’t done growing yet. Amazon Web Services posted $10.4 billion in operating income in the third quarter,… Read More Amazon Web Services VP of AI, Matt Wood, is leaving the company Matt Wood, the Amazon Web Services vice president who was a longtime champion of the cloud giant’s machine learning and… Read More With new Amazon Web Services partnership, Oracle’s cloud database trade-off is complete Oracle announced a strategic partnership with Amazon Web Services on Monday afternoon that will further integrate its database offerings and… Read More AWS exec explains how AI agents are driving a radical shift in the world of coding In an era where AI is reshaping industries at breakneck speed, Doug Seven finds himself at the forefront of a… Read More Software firm sues Amazon in contract dispute over Emirates VR experience at Dubai Airshow A VR demo at the Emirates booth during the 2023 Dubai Airshow is the subject of a lawsuit filed by… Read More Amazon Web Services AI leader on the future of large language models and autonomous agents The old saying in tech is that companies date their computing vendor, and marry their database vendor. So are AI… Read More CrowdStrike outage hits 8.5M Windows devices; Microsoft collaborates with Amazon and Google The flawed update from cybersecurity software company CrowdStrike has affected 8.5 million Windows devices, Microsoft said in a post Saturday… Read More Podcast Cybersecurity in the age of AI: A conversation with Amazon Chief Security Officer Steve Schmidt This week on the GeekWire Podcast: It was a big week for cybersecurity for Seattle’s cloud giants, albeit in very… Read More Congressional hearing pits Microsoft’s actions vs. words in public grilling over security failures Updated below with details from hearing. Microsoft President Brad Smith previewed his approach in prepared written testimony for his appearance… Read More Amazon’s departing cloud chief: Gen AI can be ‘one of the biggest opportunities AWS has ever seen’ Three years after returning to Amazon Web Services to lead the cloud giant through one of the most challenging and… Read More Adam Selipsky, the exit interview: Amazon Web Services CEO on AI, competition, and the future Adam Selipsky spoke with GeekWire this week at Amazon Web Services headquarters in Seattle in an interview prior to his… Read More How Amazon’s new cloud chief Matt Garman will approach the big challenges ahead Three executives from Amazon Web Services were meeting with a top CIA tech leader, trying to come up with a… Read More Microsoft will make Khan Academy’s Khanmigo AI tool free to U.S. teachers in cloud shift Online education platform Khan Academy is shifting a portion of its cloud workload to Microsoft Azure under a partnership announced… Read More Amazon Web Services CEO Adam Selipsky steps down; senior exec Matt Garman named AWS CEO Amazon Web Services CEO Adam Selipsky is stepping down from the role, three years after returning to the company to… Read More
