Prices New Client Unlimited New clients can enjoy one week of classes for just $25 or two weeks of classes for $45! All packages can be enjoyed at all 6 of our studio locations for hundreds of session each week. New Member - Unlimited Week New Member - 2 Unlimited Weeks Class Passes All regularly priced class passes come with 1 year expiration. Discounted packages may expire more quickly. Single Class 5 Pass 10 Pass 20 Pass Unlimited Options Auto-renew is a 3-month minimum commitment and needs to be canceled in writing through email to albanyhotyoga@gmail.com or it will continue to charge indefinitely. Month Auto Renew Month Unlimited 6 Month Unlimited Year Unlimited Discount Packages* Certain members of our community receive a discount on our packages and pricing. These discounts are available for full-time students, seniors over 65 years old, teachers, police, fire fighters, nurses and active military/veterans. To receive discount approval, submit documentation to us in advance of making a purchase. Students should send their full time class schedule. Seniors should send a photo of their license or date of birth. Occupational (Military, Police, Nurses, Fire, K-12 Teachers) can email us a picture of their work ID or other employment verification. All submissions must be made prior to purchases because refunds will not be given after the fact. Email jessica@thehotyogaspot.com to submit your discount verification! Gift Certificates For your convenience, gift cards can be purchased online, over the phone, or at our studio by appointment. Gift cards ordered over the phone will be mailed to you within 24 hours. Gift cards purchased online will be available to print instantly or can be emailed to the person receiving the gift. To buy a gift card online, click here. Purchase Policy There are no returns for any purchase made at The Hot Yoga Spot or in our online store and mobile app. All purchases are non-transferable and non-refundable. Cancelling a reservation for a scheduled class will result in an account credit for future use at The Hot Yoga Spot.
