Hire an SEO Expert to Increase Your Organic Traffic I design, develop and execute SEO campaigns to rank websites on the first page of Google. SEO Consultant for B2B and SaaS Companies Whether you have an in-house SEO team or are looking for an organic SEO expert or SEO consultant, I can help you accelerate growth with results-oriented SEO and content marketing strategies. I will work with you as an extension or addition to your team to optimize your on and off-site SEO, create SEO-optimized pages and create a content calendar to help you drive targeted organic traffic, increase leads and grow revenue. I can help you: Improve keywords rankings and organic traffic Acquire new customers with SEO and content marketing Grow your sales and revenue Technical SEO and maintenance Building 7-Figure Companies with SEO and Content Marketing Learn how founders, CEOs, execs and thought leaders use SEO and Content Marketing to grow SaaS, technology and startup companies from zero to 7 and 8-figure revenue. GET ON THE FIRST PAGE OF GOOGLE WITH SEO GROWTH PROGRAM A 6 step SEO strategy to outrank your competitors After working with companies as an organic SEO consultant for over 8 years I created the SEO Growth Program that is designed to help B2B and SaaS companies to rank their websites on the first page of Google for highly competitive non-branded keywords. I have processes and systems I use for all my clients that deliver exceptional results every time and withstand all algorithm updates. Most of the companies that hire me as an SEO expert triple their organic traffic and on average see a 90% increase in leads generation and a 60% increase in sales Year Over Year . Download the Program to learn how organic SEO expert can help you rank your website on the first page in 2025. Step By Step Process SEO Pricing Deliverables Timeline Success Stories WHAT DOES AN ORGANIC SEO EXPERT DO? Today’s SEO isn’t about adding keywords to your content and building backlinks to your site with keyword reach anchor texts. It’s about being ranked on the first page of Google for the right keywords that will drive prospects to your sales funnel. If you hire me as your organic SEO expert and SEO consultant, there are a few key areas we will focus on to improve your ranking and traffic: Identify keywords that your prospect type in on search engines when they research and look for products and enterprise-grade services. Optimize on and off-site SEO and gradually improve the ranking for the keywords so they appear on the first page in organic search results. Create a comprehensive content marketing strategy for your blog to capture and drive prospects to your site when they are looking for trends, best practices, checklists or running any relevant research for the industry during the awareness and consideration stage. Create relevant contextual links on authoritative sites to support your ranking improvements. Improve conversion rates , optimize your landing pages, improve website loading speed and fix crawling errors so nothing prevents you from ranking on the first page. KEYWORD RESEARCH Every SEO campaign starts with a keyword research and analysis that reveals what keywords your potential customers are typing in on Google when they search for solutions and services. Not every keyword will be relevant and included in the final optimization list. As an SEO expert, I'll group keywords based on topics and relevancy and will map them to existing pages or create new ones. SEO AUDITS AND TECHNICAL SEO Using Google Analytics and Search Console data, and various SEO tools (Ahrefs, SEMRush, SEO audit, Content gap analysis) uncover the gaps in your SEO strategy, keyword mapping, landing pages set up and optimization, technical SEO and previous SEO activities. Creating an action item list to improve your on-site SEO, internal linking, website loading speed, fix 404, 500 and crawling errors, to ensure there is nothing prevents you from ranking on the first page. CONTENT MARKETING As an SEO consultant, I will work with your team and content writers to incorporate SEO into your content creation process, blog post, press releases, webinars and other web assets. Every piece of content you post on your website has an opportunity to rank on the first page and drive prospects to your site. LINK BUILDING AND BRAND MENTIONS As of 2025 link building is still the most important factor in keywords ranking, growing your traffic and improving your lead generation with SEO. I take a content-marketing approach for link building, acquiring brand mentions for my clients through content publication on high-authority sites and media resources, focusing on quality and relevance. DO YOU NEED AN ORGANIC SEO EXPERT? It can be tricky to figure out how to improve SEO for your company without being penalized. There are tricks, acronyms, analytics, outdated information, and more. This can make finding success more confusing and complicated than it should be. But you don’t have to do it alone. No matter what stage your company is at, I can be your organic SEO expert and consultant and help you improve your keywords ranking, organic traffic and grow revenue with performance-based SEO consulting services. SEO pricing starts at $3500/month and is fully customizable to your company’s needs. Just starting with SEO You just created your website or need help with redesigning or creating a new one. You don’t have any backlinks and never done any SEO for your website which probably ranks on page 10 of Google. You are still figuring out product-market fit and keywords and need an SEO expert to analyze your competitors and conduct a keyword research. You are committed to long term SEO strategy and want to work with an organic SEO consultant to make organic search traffic your main lead generation channel. Need to grow with SEO You’ve figured out product-market fit and keywords are now looking to compete and outrank other companies on Google search results. You have some backlinks and your site is optimized for SEO but you are not getting any leads and sales. You only rank on the first page for your company name. You don’t rank for any non-branded high-competitive keywords, and it’s hard for people to find your online when they search for services and products you offer. You are looking for an organic SEO expert to create powerful backlinks and SEO optimized content marketing strategy to rank you on the first page of Google. Maximize SEO You’ve been optimizing your website for at least 3 – 4 years and have decent organic traffic that drives your sales and revenue You have SEO and marketing teams that take care of the website, content writing and SEO strategy but you need to accelerate SEO and organic traffic growth. You want to improve your ranking on the first page or move some keywords from the second to the first page of Google. You want to dominate search results and rank for all keywords (informational and commercial intent) in your industry but don’t have expertise or resources to plan and execute a revenue-focused SEO campaign. Who I Work With BUSINESS OWNERS AND EXECUTIVES If you have an established or well-funded B2B, SaaS, software, technology, startup or IT company and need help with building or optimizing your marketing strategy to drive your sales pipeline, I can work with you as your organic SEO expert/SEO consultant or fractional SEO director. MARKETERS I work with inhouse marketers, clients and agency-side marketers and organic SEO specialists who are looking to improve their inbound marketing, SEO, and lead generation. I can consult and coach your team and can develop and execute SEO campaigns for you. When you work with me, I become a part of your team. Book A Strategy Call With an Organic SEO Expert Ready to Grow Your Company? Book a complimentary 45 min call where we will discuss your current SEO performance as well as your short- and long-term goals. We will identify strengths and weaknesses in your SEO and content marketing strategies, and I can provide actionable insights and possible solutions to help you grow your rankings and traffic. SEO CONSULTANT vs SEO AGENCY vs IN-HOUSE SEO What are some of the benefits of working with an independent SEO consultant vs. SEO agency or in-house SEO? Hiring independent SEO experts is a very popular option for many B2B and SaaS business leaders who are looking for SEO services. An SEO consultant/SEO expert knows organic search engine optimization extremely well and keeps up to date on the latest strategies, tactics, and future trends. You will work directly with an SEO consultant and usually save 50% of the cost of having an employee on your team. Since you hire SEO consultants for a specific project based on their skills, they are also generally more experienced than full-time staff. Independent SEO experts have more experience than marketing generalists you can find on the job market. Consultants work with multiple companies and projects and exposed to different strategies, tools, budgeting methods, marketing, and sales data and know exactly how to build and execute your SEO strategy to deliver the best results. Independent SEO consultants provide a personal level of service, the same as you would expect from your employees. They become trusted advisors that provide unique perspectives, challenge assumed strategy, help to avoid missed opportunities or potential issues, and continuously train and educate your team. You won’t get access to SEO experts at SEO agency and will work with account manager. Independent SEO experts are not treated as employees, and you will save around 50% of your budget as a result of not having to cover payroll taxes, medical insurance, paid vacations, stationary holidays, and sick leave pay. They are also generally less expensive than SEO agencies and companies. It’s much easier to budget, plan, and negotiate your contract with an independent SEO consultant than committing to hiring an employee. You can end a contract with no strings attached if you don’t like the services or communication with an SEO consultant. SEO SERVICES OFFERED BY SEO EXPERTS Since 2010 I worked as an organic SEO expert and SEO consultant in enterprise, SaaS and B2B SEO agency settings where I gained vast experience in organic and local SEO, technical SEO, link building, content marketing and web design for small and medium-sized companies. SEO Strategies and Tips to Grow Your Business You can learn more about SEO strategies and marketing tactics I offer to my clients when they hire me to be their SEO expert and consultant. You can find actionable tips on how to grow your company with advanced SEO tools, on and off-site optimization, technical SEO, content marketing, and conversion rate optimization. SEO Services: What Does An SEO Company Do? Do I actually need to go with SEO services? Can I just learn everything by myself? How much should I spend on SEO experts or consultants? Would a “full” SEO agency guarantee results? Learn what to expect from a professional enterprise SEO services. Continue Reading
