“Not acknowledging that millions are dealing with mental health conditions is costing an enormous amount both in terms of dollars and cents and, more importantly, people's lives." ​ Arianna Huffington Mental Health at Work Mini-Conference, May 2018 "I personally would like to thank Mind Share Partners for all of your support of this ERG and community from the very beginning when we were unsure, driven, and quite a bit scared on launching something that would make us so vulnerable. You provided resources and insight that gave us direction, hope, and reminded us that what we were creating would matter to our peers. To which, you were right. I'm thankful for Mind Share Partners, what you stand for and all that you're creating in this new area of diversity, inclusion, and belonging." "After the Mind Share Partners conference, we created our own Mental Health Fund, since our health insurance excludes it, and talked about it so our team knew we had their back and they'd be covered for emergency care for suicidal thoughts, etc. It's a start. Stigma runs deep. It's good that [Mind Share Partners] is helping workplaces talk about it!" Just launched! Join our Mind Share Partners Institute certificate program. Just launched! Join our Mind Share Partners Institute certificate program. The business investment in employee mental health and well-being is working. Mind Share Partners’ 2025 Mental Health at Work Report in partnership with Qualtrics marks our fourth national study of the U.S. workforce. We surveyed 1,153 U.S. adults employed full-time. This year's report is a pulse on mental health and well-being of employees against a backdrop of increasingly intense financial and political uncertainty. The research tells a clear, logical story: workplaces that support employee mental health see less burnout, depression, and anxiety–all of which are costly to employers in healthcare costs and employee retention. Learn why supporting well-being at work is a necessary part of the future of work, and get our guidance for employers. Download the report 2025 Employee Mental Health Trends Here's a one-minute look at the key findings. #1. The good news: Those investing in mental health see payoffs in employee health and retention. Employees who work at a company that supports their mental health are twice as likely to report no burnout or depression. ​ #2. Half of U.S. workers report moderate to severe levels of burnout, depression, or anxiety. People cited top stressors as U.S. politics (43%), global events (42%), and personal finances (37%). Women, younger generations, LGBTQ+, and front-line workers reported higher levels of burnout. ​ #3. Work-life balance beats benefits in terms of improving employee well-being. Workers rated good work-life balance and flexibility as what would be most helpful at work, followed by safety and openness to talk about mental health. #4. A supermajority of workers (78%) support the promotion of fairness and inclusion at work, which yields returns in well-being and engagement. Respondents at companies still committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives had a better relationship to work, less stigma, and higher trust in their organization. ​ #5. Barriers, including mental health stigma, persist Despite the near-universal prevalence of mental health challenges, 46% would worry about losing their job if they were to talk about their mental health at work. ​ ​ Connect with our team and create your mentally healthy workplace. Our report shows promising momentum and a clear need for ongoing investment in employee well-being. As workplace mental health advisors, we work with H.R. leaders and C-level executives to create healthier workforces.
