Vehicle Insurance Car Insurance Cheap Car Insurance Cheap car insurance Save hundreds when you switch to Liberty Mutual 1 You could save over $75/month with Liberty Mutual 1 Trusted by drivers for over 100 years, we're here to protect you and your car without stretching your budget. With Liberty Mutual, “cheap” means reliable insurance at a price that works for you. Car insurance discounts that help you save money See how much you can save when you only pay for what you need Violation-Free Discount Great drivers are made, not born. You'll get a discount if your driving history is violation-free. 2 Multi-Car Discount The more cars you insure with Liberty Mutual, the more you can save on your premium. 2 RightTrack ® Earn savings just for being a safe driver by participating in our safe driving program. 3 Those are just a few of the ways we can help lower you car insurance costs. View all car insurance discounts View all car insurance discounts How to get cheap car insurance Trying to get cheap car insurance? Here are some tips to help you find the right coverage on a budget. How can I lower my car insurance quote? The quickest way to lowering your car insurance quote is usually by choosing a higher deductible or the amount you'd pay out of pocket if you have a claim. Higher deductibles often mean lower costs upfront. However, be sure to pick a deductible you would feel comfortable covering if you're in an accident. Other ways to lower your car insurance rate include asking about discounts, signing up for a safe driver program like RightTrack®, maintaining a good driving record, and bundling your policies. Read more about ways to lower your car insurance rate. Is there a risk to buying cheap car insurance? Not necessarily, but it's important to understand what you're signing up for. Lower-cost car insurance policies can sometimes come with trade-offs like Lack of coverage options High deductibles Poor customer service or claims support Less financial strength or stability, which can affect how confidently you can rely on the insurer during a claim If the price is too good to be true, it probably is. You want to make sure you're getting good cheap car insurance, not just cheap car insurance. Before buying, make sure you understand the policy and the reputation of the company so they're there for you when you need them. What's the cheapest car insurance I can get? The cheapest car insurance you can get is usually referred to as “liability-only.” This basic car insurance helps pay for injuries or damages you might cause to someone else in an accident. Liability-only meets the basic legal requirements in most states and can help keep your monthly cost low. Keep in mind that a liability-only policy does not help pay for damage to your own car or injuries so it's important to understand its limitations before choosing. Looking for cheap car insurance for young drivers? We know teens and young adults often face higher car insurance rates, so we offer ways to help lower them. Discounts like Good Student and Students Away at School can make insurance more affordable, and choosing options like liability-only coverage or a higher deductible can help you save even more. And if you're renting or own a home, you may be able to lower your rate by bundling your car insurance with another type of policy. Bundle your insurance, more like bundle of savings! You could save over $950 when you bundle your auto and home insurance with Liberty Mutual! We also make it fast and easy for you to get a quote. Check out why people have trusted us with their insurance needs for over 100 years! 4 But that's not all. You can save by bundling other products from renters to auto, to RV to boat. We can help you get the insurance you need at a great price! We also make it fast and easy for you to get a quote. Check out why people have trusted us with their insurance needs for over 100 years!
