Get 30% off on our Premium membership! Promo code: 30SECRET - offer ends in Data analytics software isdesigned to identify, analyze, and visualize data. These programs can be used to uncover patterns and trends in large datasets and can be used to quickly make decisions in a variety of different industries. Data analytics software can be used to identify customer behaviors and preferences, track performance metrics, identify anomalies in data sets, and more. This type of software is used to support decision-making, increase efficiency, and improve overall operations. See more Categories Data Analytics mongoDB Premium Used by 664 members Boost your productivity with a database optimized for your applications $500 in credits for 1 year Save up to $500 Mixpanel Premium Used by 1229 members Product analytics platform 1 year free Save up to $50,000 Hotjar Used by 922 members Easily improve user experience on your website 40% off all annual plans Save up to $928 Google Cloud (GCP) Used by 8863 members $2,000 in credits for 1 year if you never raised funds // $350,000 in credits for 2 years if you did Save up to $350,000 Google Ads Premium Used by 1013 members Be seen where your customers are searching, browsing, and watching with Google Ads Spend $500, get $500 // Spend $1,000, get $750 // Spend $1,500, get $1,000 in FREE ad credit Save up to $1,000 Semrush Used by 2403 members Be more visible in search results and increase qualified traffic 14 days free on Semrush One Save up to $274 Google Cloud (GCP) vs AWS Activate Mixpanel vs Amplitude Mixpanel vs Google Analytics Amplitude Used by 339 members Online analytics platform 25% off the Plus plan for 1 year Save up to $183 Databricks Premium Used by 200 members From data to AI. $21,000 in credits for 1 year Save up to $21,000 Moesif Premium Used by 81 members Analysis tool for your APIs 50% off for 3 months for the plan Grow Save up to $127 LiveSession Premium Used by 142 members Analytics platform & user session replay 50% off the Pro plan for 6 months Save up to $594 Vaizle Premium Used by 42 members Social media analysis tool 50% off for 1 year Save up to $1,794 Adriel Used by 106 members Marketing data integration and optimization platform 21 days free Save up to $1,000 SerpApi Premium Used by 183 members Search Engine Scraping API 50% off for 12 months Save up to $780 June Analytics Premium Used by 52 members Product analysis tool $450 in credits for the Growth plan (3 months) Save up to $450 Similarweb Used by 94 members Accelerate growth with AI-driven digital insights 20% off monthly and annual plans for 1 year Save up to $800 Jepto Premium Used by 179 members Digital Marketing Intelligence and Automation solution 6 months free on Basic Plan Save up to $60 Moz Used by 218 members Elevate your search rankings 25% off annual plans for 1 year Save up to $995 Datapills Premium Used by 91 members Web analytics and user journey platform 6 months free on the Startup plan Save up to $144 Ledgy Premium Used by 63 members Equity management made transparent, simple, and efficient for startups. 25% off your first year Save up to $6,500 Bright Data Premium Used by 86 members Data collection platform 50% off for 1 year on annual upfront contracts Save up to $6,000 BlockSurvey Premium Used by 96 members A secure survey platform 50% off the Standard Plan for 1 year Save up to $90 Datadog Premium Used by 257 members Cloud monitoring and analytics 1 year free on the Pro plan Save up to $100,000 Confluent Premium Used by 217 members Data streaming platform 12 months free Save up to $20,000 E-goi Premium Used by 184 members Multichannel marketing automation solution 6 months free on Starter plan (5000 contacts max) Save up to $260 Topic Premium Used by 110 members The easy way to produce the best SEO content 40% off for 3 months Save up to $358 Stackby Used by 108 members Your codeless collaboration platform 20% off monthly or annual plans for 1 year Save up to $480 Visible.vc Premium Used by 158 members Investor relations management platform 20% off any plan for 12 months Save up to $700 SurveySparrow Used by 99 members Omnichannel experience management solution 14 days free Save up to $10 Howuku Premium Used by 113 members All-in-one platform to understand your website visitors' behavior 50% off for 12 months Save up to $600 UseCSV Premium Used by 113 members A solution to add data import to your app 6 months free on the Scale plan Save up to $2,994 Sirdata Premium Used by 88 members Ensure that users' privacy choices are respected with a Consent Management Platform (CMP) that reflects your brand. 6 months free Save up to $1,400 Pivony Premium Used by 92 members A no-code customer intelligence platform 6 months free on the Basic plan Save up to $510 Google Analytics Unlock the power of your data with Google Analytics Plausible Privacy-first analytics for a better web experience Funnelytics Simplify funnel analytics Triple Whale Unlock growth with data-driven insights Adobe Analytics Unleash the power of data TapClicks From data to decisions Prisync Prisync: Empower Your Pricing Strategy! Coosto Coosto: Empowering Communication with Insight! Lucky Orange Website analytics made easy Formassembly FormAssembly: Streamlining Data Collection, Simplifying Processes Formstack forms Formstack Forms: Streamlining Your Success! Oribi Oribi: Empowering Your Data Decisions Talkwalker Talkwalker: Turning Conversations into Insights! Matomo Data insights without compromising trust Tableau Visualize your data Databox Track metrics, achieve more What are analytics tools used for? Analytics tools are mainly used to analyze the behavior of visitors to a website. The information you get from them will then help you make decisions regarding your web marketing strategy.This data is very important for your business, as it can be used to segment your audience and understand who is buying your products or services. In addition, it is possible to better understand the behavior of Internet users on your website and identify areas for improvement. This can be the ease of navigation, accessibility, or the relevance of the information provided.The analytics approach is part of a continuous improvement of your offer. Thus, the analysis tools are essential to improve the user experience and ultimately build customer loyalty.In addition, analytics is ideal for facilitating the sale of your products or services. Segmenting customers according to different criteria allows you to precisely target a type of audience with a type of message and a suitable product. This match between your proposal and the needs of your customers improves the relevance of your actions. As a result, the conversion rate and the number of sales increase naturally.Finally, the joint analysis of the revenues obtained and the marketing expenses on a segment of your audience is strategic to increase your profitability. Indeed, analytics are ideal to take a step back and know precisely where to deploy your resources in terms of time, human resources, or budget to reach a maximum ROI. What are the different types of analysis tools? Generally, analysis tools can be divided into different categories:- Content analysis tools- Customer analysis tools- Social media analysis tools- Product analysis tools- UX analysis tools- Etc.The use of a tool depends on your specific issues. In the field of web analytics, tools focused on audience data and the various acquisition channels (social networks, Google Search, applications, etc.) are preferred. What can analytics tell you? First of all, a well done analysis using the best analytics tools, will provide you with clear and accurate information about your audience. These will take the form of key performance indicators or KPIs. We can mention in particular:- The acquisition rate- The conversion rate- The bounce rate- The number of visits over a given period- The number of unique visitors- The average time spent for each session- The average shopping cart- The number of pages views- Etc.As you can see, taking into account all this information will be very useful to facilitate the optimization of your strategy. This data is all the more important as it respects the legislation on personal data (GDPR). Indeed, this is so-called first party data and you can use it with peace of mind to improve your digital communication and optimize your ROI.In concrete terms, this data allows you to understand the customer’s path on your website or your application. You will know which types of customers buy your products and which pages are consulted on your website. Shopping cart abandonment or customers leaving your site are no longer an enigma, because data analysis allows you to identify the irritating points that lead customers to abandon their purchase.Thus, analytics indicate your strengths and weaknesses and allow you to know:- The main acquisition channels- The most profitable traffic sources- The search engines used- The irritating points of the customer journey- The technical problems on your website- Etc.Therefore, your entire digital strategy can benefit from analytics tools. What are the most effective analysis tools? To measure and analyze the data collected in a relevant way, it is necessary to have efficient analytical tools. By increasing the number of visitors to your website, they guarantee an excellent return on investment.AmplitudeOne of the most popular audience measurement tools is Amplitude. It will allow you to better understand the behavior of your visitors. Thanks to precise statistical data, this SaaS software will establish clear trends. You will then be able to use them to manage your digital strategy. In addition, Amplitude offers you the opportunity to deploy A/B tests quickly. They are essential to identify what works and what needs to be improved. All this allows you to offer a smooth and pleasant experience to your customers. The result is a higher conversion rate and increased sales.MixpanelAnother very reputable software for website analysis, Mixpanel offers in-depth and very qualitative analyses. One of the major assets of this tool is the possibility to connect many traffic and user data sources such as Google Cloud, AWS, Segment, or Census. beyond website analysis, Mixpanel allows you to segment and analyze user behavior on many products and services.Google AnalyticsTo optimize your online marketing strategy, Google Analytics is particularly suitable. This software solution is able to analyze the audience of your website or your publications via key performance indicators. This allows you to refine your actions and make the necessary optimizations to improve your commercial offer. Moreover, Google’s Machine Learning capabilities are an undeniable asset to improve traffic acquisition or to improve your conversion funnel. The tool provides a wide range of information about users, from geographic regions, to the amount spent, to the likelihood of a customer repurchasing a product, to the products that are most likely to be purchased.
