Data Analytics Gain skills and a Google Certificate in 19 weeks without quitting your day job. Pay $0 upfront. Why Data Analytics? Considering a career change to data analytics? Data analysts prepare, process, and analyze data to drive decision-making across all industries, from startups to Fortune 500 companies. If you enjoy working with numbers and finding patterns in data, a career in data analytics could be right for you. Competitive Compensation: Data analysts are in high demand, with median entry-level analyst salaries starting at $80,800. In-Demand Careers: With a Google Data Analytics Certificate and professional skills training from our best-in-class coaches, you’ll open doors to over 74,765 U.S. entry-level data analytics job openings across both small businesses and large organizations. Fulfilling Work: Engage in roles where you’ll query databases, identify trends, and construct data visualizations to support key business decisions. Many tech roles offer flexible schedules, promoting a healthy work-life balance. Our alumni land entry-level roles as Business Analysts, Customer Experience Analysts, Data Operations Coordinators, Data Quality Analysts, Data Visualization Specialists, Junior Marketing Analysts, Junior Financial Analysts, Operations Associates, Project Coordinators, Research Analysts, Systems Operations Associates, and Technical Specialists. Hear What Our Data Analytics Alumni Have To Say Pay $0 upfront Build a career based on your potential, not your bank account. Learn in-demand skills Land a great job Pay only after earning $40k+ Support the next class Work Life Balance Your third-party coursework and Merit America career coaching services are online. Live meetings are only 3-5 hours per week. You can complete the coursework in-between work shifts, on weekends – whatever works for your life. My Calendar Monday, January 10 Merit America Program At Work 8am – 3pm Online Coursework 3pm – 5pm Daycare pick-up 5:15pm Family Dinner 6pm 1:1 Career Coaching 8pm Work with a team dedicated to your success Meet regularly with a career coach and squad of your peers to keep you on track. After you finish, you’ll join a network of thousands of Merit America alumni. Chat How does Merit America Compare? Merit America Tech Bootcamp Community College Course Length 19 weeks 12-20 weeks 50-100 weeks In person/Remote Remote Remote In-person/Remote Part-time? 25 hours Varies Varies Maximum Payment/Tuition $5,700 $16,000-$19,000 $5,000-$10,000 Certificate Google Data Analytics Certificate Yes Yes Organization Type Non-profit (Merit America collaborates with for-profits) For-profit For-profit or Non-profit Coaching and Job Search Support Yes Yes Varies Downside Protection Yes Varies No Get the data analytics skills employers are looking for Data analytics fundamentals Develop a strong foundation in data analytics through the Google Data Analytics Certificate, learning key concepts such as data types, data structures, and data ecosystems . Master spreadsheets for cleaning, organizing, and analyzing data, while gaining experience with SQL and R programming for advanced analysis. Understand how to apply structured thinking to solve data problems and make informed decisions based on data insights. Data Manipulation Skills with R and SQL Enhance your technical expertise with R and SQL, powerful tools used for querying databases and analyzing data at scale. Through practice-based assessments , simulate real-world data analytics scenarios to build your ability to manipulate and interpret large datasets. Learn to effectively use data visualization platforms to present findings and solve complex problems in professional settings Navigate the Data Analytics Job Market with Confidence Building a data analytics career goes far beyond technical skills, and Merit America’s career coaching ensures you’re fully prepared. You’ll receive personalized support to craft a standout resume and cover letter tailored for data analytics roles , as well as optimize your LinkedIn profile and practice for technical interviews. With comprehensive guidance, you’ll be ready to confidently navigate the job market and pursue your career in data analytics.
