Develop the technical skills that Fortune 500 enterprises and the public sector want. Build your skills and launch your career in Cybersecurity. Increase your data analytics capabilities with this free program. Currently enrolling Amazon Associates from: 4.9 out of 5 We make learning fun. As a trainee, you'll learn in-demand data analytics skills that will make you immediately valuable to employers in Data Analytics roles. You will have the opportunity to work with a Career Success Coach during the program. They will help develop a custom professional development plan for you. We measure our success by your success. We'll work with you to learn your career goals and match you with hand-picked, higher-paying jobs. Amazon Career Choice | Meet Lee Where graduates get hired All participants receive Data Analytics training led by an industry-leading teaching staff. Our training is accessible - you don't need a technical background to enroll. Our training is also practical, teaching the real skills that companies use. 100% fully remote No technical background is required Up to 25 - week commitment with two break weeks One-on-one career success support Career transition guidance Our programs are designed to be manageable alongside your existing work and personal commitments. Tuesdays and Thursdays 3:00 PM - 5:00 PM Greenwich Time // 4PM - 6PM Central European Time 8 - 10 hours per week 4 hours of live lectures + 2-4 hours of homework Tuesdays and Thursdays 12:00PM - 2:00 PM Eastern Time 8 - 10 hours per week 4 hours of live lectures + 2-4 hours of homework Check out the complete view of the timeline for your cohort and country, from the application deadline, to the first day of class, to the end of the program. Applications open Program launch date Learning phase ends Applications open Program launch date Learning phase ends Applications open Applications open SQL Tableau Data Analysis Statistical Programming Languages (Python, R) Data Visualization Excel and Spreadsheets Critical Thinking Communication Skills Problem-Solving Attention to Detail Business Analyst Joining Correlation One's cohort was transformative, launching my career as a Data Analyst and connecting me with a community that feels like family. Serving as a Teaching Assistant for allowed me to give back, support aspiring analysts, and further solidify my own skills. Correlation One has truly shaped my journey in data analytics. Live sessions Real-world case studies Community support Vice President Student Services at Norco College 25+ years of experience in higher education I am honored to be part of the journey that our learners are on as they navigate changing their careers. The opportunity to truly support each individual is so rewarding. I love the tenacity and drive that learners display as they chase their professional and personal goals. Job search support Resume writing Interview prep The Data Analytics program is built specifically for Amazon Associates. The program accommodates people who have never coded or used data in their jobs before. In fact, we welcome beginners. You don’t need experience - all you need is a passion for learning. Your participation in the training program will be covered by your Amazon Career Choice payment benefit, with any additional costs for the program being covered by Correlation One. If you enroll you will not need to pay for the program out of your own pocket. Under certain country tax rules, tuition paid by Career Choice is viewed as taxable income. Amazon provides additional compensation to Career Choice participants to offset the income tax impact, but cannot guarantee it will cover all taxes. You may see a tax for this benefit applied to a future paycheck from Amazon. For further information, please consult Amazon Career Choice policy for your country. We encourage any Amazon associates interested in learning and exploring new career options to apply. Please note to take part in the program you must be eligible for Career Choice benefits. In the US, full-time or part-time (20-29 hours per week) hourly L1-L4 blue badge employees that have been employed for 90 continuous days are eligible to participate in the program. In Canada, France, Germany, Spain, Italy and the United Kingdom, full-time or part-time (20-29 hours per week) hourly L1-L3 blue badge employees that have been employed for one year are eligible to participate in the program. This includes all hourly non-exempt FC, CS, corporate, AWS, Amazon Fresh Stores, Amazon Books, Amazon 4-star, Amazon Pop Up, Amazon Go and certain retail and eligible subsidiary associates. There are no prerequisites to apply. Beginners are welcome, and you do not need to have any previous training or knowledge to succeed here. The assessment will test your knowledge of verbal and mathematical reasoning, technology use, and basic data analytics problem-solving. Some of the questions may be difficult, which is normal. The point isn’t to get everything right but to show what you know and how you think so that we can curate the curriculum to your learning needs. You should only apply to one program for now. You may select on your application if you want to be considered for additional programs for which you’re eligible. As soon as possible. Training program seats are offered on a rolling basis. A member of our team will reach out to let you know whether you’ve been accepted into the program. They will also let you know how to make sure you’re ready for the program on day one! Of course. Our goal is to build the most flexible program for people with busy work and personal lives. With virtual content and an instructor staff ready to accommodate your needs, you’ll be able to succeed regardless of how busy you are. Career Choice also provides Amazon Associates with the ability to apply for school accommodations to reduce or change your work schedule to meet your needs as you complete the course. If you leave Amazon for another job during the course you do not have to pay back tuition and you will be able to finish the course! The course is taught by Correlation One training instructors. They’re great at making concepts easy to understand and practical, so that you can use them in the real world. Classes are fully virtual, held in our “Live Online” classroom. This course will require you to have access to a computer (laptop or desktop), that can access the internet. There are no specifications required, but a tablet (iPad), Chromebook, or cellphone will NOT be sufficient to complete this training program. Learners will need a functioning laptop or desktop computer with an internet connection during class time. We will provide everything else you need. Unfortunately, we do not provide another schedule for our training programs. If you're concerned about a conflict with your work schedule, we will provide you with an admission/accommodation letter and welcome packet to request an accommodation from your manager. Our world-class data skills training and supportive career coaches will open new career pathways for you. This program is fully supported by Amazon Career Choice. We make learning fun. As a trainee, you’ll solve real data problems and learn cutting-edge skills that will make you immediately valuable to employers in data analytics roles. You will be paired 1:1 with a Career Success Coach who will develop a custom professional development plan for you. We measure our success by your success. We’ll work with you to learn your career goals and match you with hand-picked, higher-paying jobs. See what actual Amazon Career Choice graduates have to say about the program: We’ve helped thousands of people find new jobs at companies like: All participants receive data analytics training led by our world-class teaching staff. Our training is accessible - you don’t need a technical background to enroll. Our training is also practical, teaching the real skills that companies use. • 100% fully remote • No technical background is required • 23 week commitment with two break weeks • One-on-one peer and mentor support • Career transition guidance Program times (USA): Mondays and Thursdays from 12:00pm to 2:00pm Eastern Time Program times (Canada/UK/Europe): Tuesdays and Thursdays from 1:00pm to 3:00pm Eastern Time/7:00pm to 9:00pm Central European Time What is Data Literacy? What does a data-driven culture look like? Quantifying and framing business problems Data-driven decision making Data visualization Descriptive statistics Interpretation of charts, graphs, & tables Tableau Excel SQL Python The Data Analytics program is built especially for Amazon Associates. The program accommodates people who have never coded or used data in their jobs before. In fact, we welcome beginners. You don’t need experience - all you need is a passion for learning. Our training will provide insight into how to use data in real jobs. Teaching Assistants will give you support as you develop skills using real business cases. Our mentor and peer support network will then support you as you find a new job. MARKET RESEARCH ANALYST REPORTING ANALYST DATA ENTRY SPECIALIST OPERATIONS MANAGER PRODUCTION COORDINATOR SCHEDULING COORDINATOR HUMAN RESOURCES ANALYST OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE ANALYST PRODUCT ANALYST DIGITAL MARKETING ASSISTANT / ANALYST SALES ASSISTANT / ANALYST DATA ANALYST "It has been great. Especially the capstone project. Very interactive and involving. I was never ALONE! TAs and C1 teams are always reassuring, available to support and guide me." Stella Williams Senior Problem Solver at PNE5 "This program has been challenging and rewarding at the same time. I was able to implement the skills learned from C1 almost instantly into my job. Those new skills helped me get a promotion within the third month of class. The teachers are great and will work with you every step of the way!" Zachary Page ICQA Analyst at ABE8 "Correlation One made me believe in myself. I got not only technical skills, but also gained a good experience of working with a team" Aleksandr Ivanov Former FC Associate at PDX5 | now a Sr. Validation Technician at Intel "Correlation One offers a powerful combination of current data analysis techniques and professional career development. It’s perfect for anyone transitioning into the data analytics industry" LR Rodgers Amazon Associate at DEN2 Your participation in the training program will be covered by your Amazon Career Choice payment benefit, with any additional costs for the program being covered by Correlation One. If you enroll you will not need to pay for the program out of your own pocket. We encourage any Amazon associates interested in learning and exploring new career options to apply. Please note to take part in the program you must be eligible for Career Choice benefits. In the US, full-time or part-time (20-29 hours per week) hourly L1-L4 blue badge employees that have been employed for 90 continuous days are eligible to participate in the program. In Canada, France, Germany, Spain, Italy and the United Kingdom, full-time or part-time (20-29 hours per week) hourly L1-L3 blue badge employees that have been employed for one year are eligible to participate in the program. This includes all hourly non-exempt FC, CS, corporate, AWS, Amazon Fresh Stores, Amazon Books, Amazon 4-star, Amazon Pop Up, Amazon Go and certain retail and eligible subsidiary associates. There are no prerequisites to apply. Beginners are welcome, and you do not need to have any previous training or knowledge to succeed here. The application process is an easy two step process consisting of a written application and a short skills assessment. Our process is not meant to be intimidating but a chance to get to know you better along the way! Our staff is here to guide you through the process each step of the way. The assessment will test your knowledge of verbal and mathematical reasoning, technology use, and basic data analytics problem-solving. Some of the questions may be difficult, which is normal. The point isn’t to get everything right but to show what you know and how you think so that we can curate the curriculum to your learning needs. You should only apply to one program for now. You may select on your application if you want to be considered for additional programs for which you’re eligible. As soon as possible. Training program seats are offered on a rolling basis. A member of our team will reach out to let you know whether you’ve been accepted into the program. They will also let you know how to make sure you’re ready for the program on day one! Of course. Our goal is to build the most flexible program for people with busy work and personal lives. With virtual content and an instructor staff ready to accommodate your needs, you’ll be able to succeed regardless of how busy you are. Career Choice also provides Amazon Associates with the ability to apply for school accommodations to reduce or change your work schedule to meet your needs as you complete the course. If you leave Amazon for another job during the course you do not have to pay back tuition and you will be able to finish the course! The course is taught by Correlation One training instructors. They’re great at making concepts easy to understand and practical, so that you can use them in the real world. Classes are fully virtual, held in our “Live Online” classroom. This course will require you to have access to a computer (laptop or desktop), that can access the internet. There are no specifications required, but a tablet (iPad), Chromebook, or cellphone will NOT be sufficient to complete this training program. Learners will need a functioning laptop or desktop computer with an internet connection during class time. We will provide everything else you need. Our program is designed to help you in your job search every step of the way. A dedicated Career Success Coach will work with you to understand your unique dreams and vision. From there, we’ll match you with roles that might be a fit. You’ll also be able to hear from top companies during live Career Fairs and events. Unfortunately, we do not provide another schedule for our training programs. If you're concerned about a conflict with your work schedule, we will provide you with an admission/accommodation letter and welcome packet to request an accommodation from your manager.
