Understanding and successfully executing a social media marketing strategy requires a lot of effort and experimentation. On top of the basic skill set needed to work in social media, the platforms are also always changing. What works today might not work tomorrow. But when you work with a social media agency, you can trust that the people on your team have the skills and expertise to get the job done. Social media organizations also closely monitor changes across platforms and make the necessary adjustments to their strategies. You don’t have to worry about what levers to pull when you’re working with an agency, because their experience can help you successfully maintain your social media accounts, freeing you up to concentrate on the other areas needed to expand your company. Stop Searching & Start Winning. Talk To Our Social Media Marketing Experts You don’t just employ one individual when you partner with an agency. You’re bringing on a full crew of experts in their respective fields. A social media agency will have everything you need to produce your campaigns under one roof. You won’t have to purchase new equipment or subscribe to new software services. Creating a successful social media strategy and managing your accounts requires a significant time commitment. Take the burden off your plate by partnering with an agency. Explore our vetted and curated list below to get started. 25 Top Social Media Agencies in 2025 1. NoGood At NoGood, we have our foundations in growth marketing, but we’ve been successfully bringing those strategies to social media. We take a performance-first approach and create data-driven content to ensure sustainable growth for our channels and partners. Our content creation team has crafted an internally developed model to build audiences and communities, and we offer the same metrics-driven approach to every partner we work with, across all channels. Our in-house design and creative teams really set us apart – they help our community team members build performance creative that will really stand out on any platform of your choice. We have experience building campaigns for TikTok, Instagram, LinkedIn, Facebook, and Snapchat, and we strive to stay on the forefront of innovation in the industry, trying out new formats on existing platforms and exploring new channel options. Our expertise spans industries, and we’ve worked with notable clients like JVN, Intuit, and Spring Health. With JVN, for example, we were able to increase their revenue from paid social campaigns by over 1,000%. At NoGood, we understand social media, and we’re ready to use that expert knowledge to fuel your growth. Office Location: New York, NY (Headquarters) Year Founded: 2017 Team Size: 50 – 100 employees Key Services: Social Media Marketing Campaigns, Search Engine Optimization, Conversion Optimization, SEM, Social Media Ads, Content Marketing, Email, Video, and SMS Marketing Industries Served: SaaS, Healthcare, Fintech, B2B, Consumer, AI Case Studies: View all case studies. 2. Lyfe Marketing LYFE Marketing is an award-winning social media marketing agency known for their expert services. They pride themselves on creating and managing top-performing campaigns for businesses in various industries. To them, social media is not just a part of their business – it’s their passion and expertise. What sets them apart is their commitment to taking content creation to the next level. They leverage high-quality images and incorporate clients’ logos to ensure that every piece of content is visually appealing and aligned with their clients’ brand identities. Office Location: Atlanta, Georgia Year Founded: 2011 Team Size: 51 – 200 employees Key Services: Social Media Advertising Agency, Social Media Campaign Management, Short Video Management, Social Media Advertising Services, Email Marketing, PPC Management Industries Served: eCommerce, Retail, Health and Wellness Case Studies: View all case studies. 3. Disruptive Marketing Disruptive Advertising has uncovered a startling revelation: an astounding 76% of digital marketing funds are wasted, as revealed through their evaluation of over 3,000 businesses’ marketing strategies. However, Disruptive Advertising doesn’t stop at mere observation. They immediately rectify this issue by redistributing or saving those squandered marketing funds. With a commitment to delivering long-term success, Disruptive Advertising understands that data is the foundation for achieving optimal results. Office Location: Pleasant Grove, UT Year Founded: 2012 Team Size: 51 – 200 employees Key Services: Paid Search Advertising, Conversion Optimization, Facebook Advertising, Landing Page Design, Google Shopping Campaigns, Search Engine Optimization, Lead Generation, Lifecycle Marketing Case Studies: View all case studies. 4. Sociallyin For Sociallyin, the cornerstone of their approach lies in collaboration and curiosity. They firmly believe in the power of working together and fostering a spirit of curiosity to drive innovation and success. As the internet constantly evolves, they’ve remained dedicated and focused, adapting to the constantly changing algorithm. Office Location: Atlanta, Georgia Year Founded: 2011 Team Size: 51 – 200 employees Key Services: Social Media Strategy, Social Media Management, Community Management, Paid Social Advertising, Influencer Marketing Agency, Social Media Communities Industries Served: Automotive, Construction, Food and Beverage Case Studies: View all case studies. 5. Joseph Studios Joseph Studios is a digital marketing and public relations firm. Their ideal clients value engaging with their customers in a way that emphasizes fostering strong brand loyalty, and they’re achieving that through social media. Their teams focus heavily on finding the perfect audience. Using proprietary tools, they’ve able to locate niche forums, groups, and online spaces where your audience is already engaging. With those places in mind, Joseph Studios builds customer profiles so they can understand just what makes your audience tick. They’re on a mission to help brands grow faster and smarter. Office Location: Atlanta, Georgia Year Founded: 2016 Team Size: 11 – 50 employees Key Services: SEO Services, SEM, Social Media Content Marketing, Graphic Design, Social Media Marketing Solutions, Public Relations, Web Development, Digital Marketing Strategy Industries Served: Furniture, Music, Retail Case Studies: View all case studies. 6. Firebelly Marketing Firebelly Marketing – a top-rated, highly regarded, award-winning social media marketing firm – is 100% social-media oriented. Their goal is to increase brands’ likeability. It’s all social for them. The company embodies core values that guide its operations and define its business approach; some include focus, integrity, innovation, reliability, and excellence. Office Location: Indianapolis, IN Year Founded: 2001 Team Size: 11 – 50 employees Key Services: Relatable Content Creation, Social Media Management Services, Influencer Marketing Services, Social Media Ads, Social Listening, User-Generated Content Marketing Industries Served: Food and Beverage Case Studies: View all case studies. 7. ATTN Agency ATTN Agency is a full-funnel performance and growth marketing agency. Through data-driven analysis, nimble advertising buying, and unmatched creative services, they help companies take their growth to the next level. Digitally native firms can use ATTN Agency’s marketing strategy, media buying, and creative services across all major ad platforms, including Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, Google, Bing, YouTube, email marketing, and SMS marketing. Office Location: San Diego, California Year Founded: 2018 Team Size: 11 – 50 employees Key Services: Social Media Marketing Solutions, Search Engine Marketing, Social Media Marketing Strategy, Digital Marketing Services, Email Marketing, YouTube Advertising, Google Ads, Social Media Performance Ads Industries Served: eCommerce Case Studies: View all case studies. 8. Socialistics What sets Socialistics apart from the competition? They’re insatiable storytellers, motivated to discover your story and express it compellingly. They capture your voice, look, and feel through written words, motion, and images to uplift their clients. They put a lot of effort into sharing your story on social media in significant and measurable ways. Office Location: Seattle, WA Year Founded: 2018 Team Size: 2 – 10 employees Key Services: Content Marketing, Organic Social Media, Copywriting, Facebook Advertising, Social Media Ads, A/B Testing Industries Served: Health, Real Estate, Food & Beverage Case Studies: View all case studies. 9. Thrive Internet Marketing Agency Thrive is one of the most driven social media marketing companies that leverages the Internet’s potential to expand your business. Thrive was established on the belief that companies can outperform their rivals with a solid website and a successful online marketing plan. They provide businesses with proven online marketing strategies that work. Office Location: Dallas, Texas Year Founded: 2005 Team Size: 51 – 200 employees Key Services: Web Design, Search Engine Optimization, Social Media Marketing Services, Content Marketing, Conversion Rate Optimization, Video Production, Reputation Management, Social Media Advertising Industries Served: eCommerce, Legal, Plumbing Case Studies: View all case studies. 10. Social Media 55 Social Media 55 offers full-service digital marketing. Solutions from Social Media 55 are tailored to their client’s needs, and they provide peace of mind by managing these social channels so clients can concentrate their time and attention on other facets of their organization. They have social media solutions for companies of all sizes. Office Location: Montreal, Quebec Year Founded: 2014 Team Size: 11 – 50 employees Key Services: Social Media Management Agency, Digital Design, Search Engine Optimization, PPC Facebook Advertising, Influencer Marketing, Community Management, App Marketing, Video Production, Relevant Content Marketing Industries Served: Audio Equipment, Real Estate, Education Case Studies: View all case studies. 11. Brighter Click Brighter Click is an eCommerce paid media & creative strategy firm. They’ve managed over 20 million dollars spent on Facebook, Instagram, and Google PPC ads. Working with an agency, one expects a positive ROI. At Brighter Click, the team keeps their clients informed on their ad accounts and business status through proactive and educational communication. Office Location: Cary, North Carolina Year Founded: 2019 Team Size: 2 – 10 employees Key Services: Facebook Advertising, Instagram Advertising, Marketing Analytics, Website Optimization, Influencer Marketing, Google Ads, Fractional CMO, Design Services, UGC Sourcing Industries Served: Sustainable Packaging, eCommerce Case Studies: View all case studies. 12. Power Digital Marketing The growth marketing firm Power Digital is fueled by cutting-edge technology and driven by a team of talented consultative marketers, creatives, analysts, and technologists. Their expertise and passion empower leading and emerging brands worldwide to grow revenue and establish strong brand recognition. At Power Digital, they eliminate the guesswork from marketing, maximizing the return on your investment and delivering the outcomes you truly desire: sustainable growth. Office Location: San Diego, CA Year Founded: 2012 Team Size: 500 – 1000 employees Key Services: Affiliate Marketing, Paid Social, Email Marketing, Search Engine Optimization, TikTok, Online Community Management, Influencer Marketing, Creative Services, Conversion Rate Optimization Industries Served: Beauty, Fashion, eCommerce Case Studies: View all case studies. 13. Social Driver Social Driver is a dynamic agency that collaborates with clients nationwide, delivering impactful communications strategies that engage audiences and elevate brand visibility. Their talented designers, strategists, developers, and professionals are dedicated to providing innovative solutions to address their clients’ most pressing challenges. They’ve meticulously developed their agency to become a trusted advisor, offering digital and social media expertise alongside exceptional project management and customer service. At Social Driver, their multifaceted team combines diverse skills and expertise to create comprehensive solutions. Office Location: Washington, DC Year Founded: 2011 Team Size: 51 – 200 employees Key Services: Social Media Strategy, Content Development, Search Engine Optimization, Live-Action Video, Technical Integrations, Community Management, Social Media Advertising Campaigns Industries Served: Tech, Education, Healthcare Case Studies: View all case studies. 14. VisualFizz VisualFizz is a full-service digital marketing agency that works with Fortune 500 corporations that want to try something new, innovative, and more effective. They also work with growth-stage businesses creating their brands and mid-sized businesses looking to outsource their marketing. Office Location: Chicago, Illinois Year Founded: 2016 Team Size: 11 – 50 employees Key Services: Social Media Marketing, Pay-Per-Click, Creative Design and UX, Online Presence, Google Ads, Social Media Channels, Search Engine Optimization, Relatable Content Creation Industries Served: Technology, Health and Wellness, Hospitality Case Studies: View all case studies. 15. Storm Brain Leading full-service digital agency Storm Brain specializes in brand planning, UI/UX design, web development, and the creation of digital marketing campaigns. Their distinguished team devises original strategies to capture interest, convey your brand, highlight your significance, generate the most conversions, and promote business growth and profitability. Office Location: San Diego, California Year Founded: 2001 Team Size: 11 – 50 employees Key Services: WooCommerce, Social Media Marketing, Shopify, Website Development and Design, SEO Services, Cutting-Edge Digital Marketing Agency Industries Served: Health, Food, Beauty Case Studies: View all case studies. 16. Taktical Digital Taktical Digital is a group of obsessive, data-driven online marketers who guide businesses. They develop innovative, cutting-edge digital strategies that are carried out with surgical precision. Taktical strongly emphasizes data, analytics, and creative expertise, focusing on creating a digital footprint to launch and guide DTC and B2B companies through their growth phase. Office Location: New York Year Founded: 2013 Team Size: 51 – 200 employees Key Services: Digital Marketing Experts, Emerging Media, Design Optimization, Lead Generation, Digital Branding, Search Engine Optimization, Social Media Advertising, eCommerce Advertising Industries Served: Fashion, Luxury, Home Goods Case Studies: View all case studies. 17. Hunter Hunter Digital, a digital marketing and website optimization firm, has over 20 years of experience assisting B2B (Lead Gen) and eCommerce firms expand through strategic, quantifiable marketing. Hunter offers unmatched online knowledge and best-in-class digital marketing tactics that give your brand quantifiable results and the best ROI. With their lengthy history in the digital sphere, they understand how to maximize outcomes. Office Location: New York, NY Year Founded: 1989 Team Size: 200 – 500 employees Key Services: Consumer Products PR, Influencer Strategy, Media Relations, Publicity Industries Served: Health and Wellness, Food and Beverage, Travel Case Studies: View all case studies. 18. Flightpath Flightpath assists businesses of all sizes in navigating the complexity of the modern digital world and achieving their goals. They work with both consumer and B2B businesses to increase awareness, lead generation, customer acquisition, and purchasing consistency. Their ability to quickly combine and fine-tune various core talents into a unique solution for each of their clients and their brands is the foundation of their strength. Office Location: New York, NY Year Founded: 1994 Team Size: 11 – 50 employees Key Services: Website and Mobile Design, Interactive Marketing, Social Media Experts, Search Engine Optimization, SEM, Social Media Audits, Interactive Marketing Industries Served: Health, Technology, Food and Beverage Case Studies: View all case studies. 19. Stella Rising Stella Rising is the go-to marketing and media agency for enthusiastic, fast-growing consumer brands and service businesses. They know what it takes to create a respected and strong brand from the ground up, with deep category knowledge and emerging star talent. They use media and insight-based communication tactics, end-to-end Amazon knowledge, Stella Intelligence business consulting services, and the social insights community Glimmer to help clients’ businesses grow. Office Location: Westport, CT Year Founded: 1982 Team Size: 50 – 200 employees Key Services: SEO, Paid Search, Social Channels, Social Media Efforts, Media Strategy, Strategy for Amazon, Out-of-Home Marketing Industries Served: eCommerce, Health Case Studies: N/A 20. We Are Social We Are Social is a global creative and social media agency. They value their global perspective with thousands of employees in offices all around the world, and they strive to bring that perspective to their clients to inform their strategies and campaigns. Their strategy development starts with a deep understanding of online communities and the cultures and subcultures within those communities so they can ensure each campaign truly speaks to its target audience. They’ve worked with notable brands such as Samsung, Netflix, and Google. Office Location: London, UK Year Founded : 2008 Team Size: 1,001 – 5,000 employees Key Services: Social Media Marketing, Brand Planning, Creative Campaign & Concept Development, Editorial & Content Production, Design, Influencer Marketing, Video & Photography, Illustration & Animation Industries Served: Automotive, eCommerce, Entertainment, Food & Drink, Gaming, Non-Profit, Retail, Sports, Technology, Travel Case Studies: View all case studies. 21. Goat Goat is a global, award-winning agency that has honed their expertise in social media and influencer marketing. They’ve worked with several notable brands, and launched over 2,000 campaigns across platforms and industries. They won Best Social Media Agency from The Drum as well as Best Use of TikTok from Digiday Awards. Goat views influencer marketing as a critical, full-funnel marketing strategy, and they work closely with clients to ensure developed strategies can help them meet their goals and objectives. To select influencers, they rely on performance data so they always find the right fit. Office Location: London, UK Year Founded : 2015 Team Size: 201 – 500 employees Key Services: Social Media Marketing & Management, Influencer Marketing, Content Production, Media Creation Industries Served: Technology, Home Goods, Automotive, Beauty, Fashion & Retail, Food & Beverage, Gaming Case Studies: View all case studies. 22. Movement Strategy Movement Strategy has a true passion for social media. They have teams across the country, and all their experts create award-winning work for clients of all different sizes across industries. They’ve received awards from The Shorty Awards, Promax, The ADDY Awards, and The OMMA Awards. The team at Movement Strategy focuses on a brand’s owned social media channels, and they use their expertise to ensure that each brand is using those channels to their fullest potential. They start by diving deep into audience research and developing social personas to ensure they understand a client’s target audience from day one. They then rely on those social personas to develop creative and truly bring a strategy to life. Office Location: New York, NY Year Founded : 2008 Team Size: 51 – 200 employees Key Services: Social Media Planning and Strategy, Paid Media, Public Relations, Influencer Marketing, Audience Development, Community Management Industries Served: Television & Entertainment, Financial Services, Food & Beverage, Clothing & Retail, Sports Case Studies: View all case studies. 23. Socialfly Socialfly is a woman-founded and led team of social media and marketing experts. At Socialfy, they’re striving to establish a new standard of digital marketing and how brands communicate with their audiences through these digital channels. Since their founding, they’ve worked with hundreds of clients and won several awards for their work. They take a social-first approach to their strategic development and production. Bringing in data earlier on, they use those learnings to drive creative conceptualization and execute campaigns that put the brands they partner with on the map. Socialfy works as an extension of your marketing team, and they bring their philosophy of collaboration to every partnership. Office Location: New York, NY Year Founded : 2012 Team Size: 11 – 50 employees Key Services: Creative Services, Social Media, Influencer Marketing, Media Buying, Persona Modeling, Community Management, SEO Industries Served: App Marketing, Beauty, Consumer, Education, Entertainment, Food & Beverage, Health & Wellness, Non-Profit Case Studies: View all case studies. 24. Acronym Acronym has over 20 years of experience as a digital marketing agency, and they bring that expertise to each and every one of their client partnerships. They tout their deep understanding of both their industry as well as their clients’ businesses, and they strive to produce truly informed work that resonates with the wants and needs of a range of target audiences. They’ve developed a tech-enabled team of experts from diverse backgrounds who masterfully make use of state-of-the-art technology and proprietary data to drive real results for their clients. They’re committed to upholding relationships with their clients and understand those relationships to be the foundation of successful business. Office Location: New York, NY Year Founded : 1995 Team Size: 51 – 200 employees Key Services: SEO, SEM, PPC, Social Media, Digital Analytics, Paid Social, Display & Programmatic, UX Usability Optimization Industries Served: N/A Case Studies: N/A 25. Aumcore Aumcore is a multidisciplinary, full-service marketing agency. They bring together teams of experts from different specialties to deliver a holistic strategy to their clients. They’ve worked with over 50 different clients across industries to bring their brands to the next level and manage their online presence. They always bring their strategies back to your business’s core goals: driving sales and revenue. With a data-driven and tech-enabled approach, every digital marketing solution is specifically tailored to your brand and business. Office Location: New York, NY Year Founded : 2010 Team Size: 11 – 50 employees Key Services: Brand Development, Digital Marketing, Mobile Websites & Applications, Mobile Strategy, Digital Design Media, Search Engine Optimization, Social Media Marketing, Content Production Industries Served: Technology, Clothing & Retail, Health & Wellness, App Marketing Case Studies: View all case studies. FAQs How do I find a good social media agency? One effective way to find a reliable agency is through our thorough list of reputable agencies. This list was compiled through extensive research, including online searches, industry recommendations, and peer referrals. There are some other critical pieces to keep in mind. First, it’s crucial to consider the agency’s experience in your industry, their proficiency in different social media platforms, and the range of services they provide. They should be able to produce results from various previous campaigns that demonstrate their expertise. Reviewing case studies and portfolios allows you to evaluate the agency’s track record and the quality of their work. Communication and collaboration are also factors to consider, as a good agency should value effective communication and involve the client in decision-making processes. Your business is important to you, and a good agency understands that communication is the cornerstone of a successful partnership. The best agencies will listen attentively to your needs and concerns and provide clear and regular updates. Furthermore, assessing the agency’s approach, creativity, and team expertise is essential to ensure they can deliver innovative and tailored content marketing strategies. You can also consider their knowledge of the marketing industry as well as their knowledge of your particular niche. The best agencies stay ahead of the curve to inform their approach, jumpstart their creativity, and bring the most innovative techniques to their clients. Finally, considering your budget and aligning it with the agency’s services is vital to finding a suitable fit. Why hire a top social media agency? Hiring a social media agency can make a big difference when it comes to both your paid and organic performance on social media. There are so many things to consider when it comes to running a business, and social media management is a job in and of itself. Hiring an agency can help take social media tasks off your to-do list while still ensuring impressive and impactful performance. Your social media helps you engage with and stay connected to your current and future prospective customers. These channels are the pulse of our culture, and they help you stay in tune with your target audience’s wants, needs, and concerns – and what they might be saying about you . Having the right social media strategy is critical, and that’s what a social media agency can bring to the table. How do social media agencies measure success of their campaigns? Measuring the success of your social media campaign is a critical skill that any top social media agency should have. They should have clear procedures both for measuring results and for communicating those results with client teams. Every social media agency may approach measurement and reporting slightly differently, but here’s some overarching information about how social media agencies commonly measure campaign performance. Social media agencies will first work with client teams to determine the key performance indicators (KPIs) for a specific campaign. These metrics can include things like engagement rates (likes, shares, comments, mentions, etc.), reach and impressions (how many people are seeing your content), follower growth (how many new followers you’ve gained), website traffic from social media sources, and conversion rates (how many people performed a desired action, like making a purchase). Teams at social media agencies can measure and report on these metrics through a variety of different platforms and tools. Their toolbox may include Google Analytics, platform-specific analytics tools (like Facebook Insights), or third-party analytics tools. Defining clear objectives at the beginning of a campaign is crucial for success. The metrics you choose with your agency team should be aligned with larger business goals so you can effectively measure how your social media campaigns are contributing to overall growth. How do social media agencies stay up-to-date on algorithm changes? Social media platforms are always changing. They’re coming out with new algorithm updates across platforms, and who knows when someone will drop the newest social media platform? Social media agencies must stay informed so they can provide expert guidance and insight for their clients. First and foremost, digital marketers monitor official sources, like verified accounts for social media platforms and search engines so they’ll be the first to hear announcements about platform or algorithm changes. Digital marketers also keep a close pulse on other leaders in the industry to hear their thoughts, insights, and perspectives on recent or upcoming platform changes. Staying up to date on technology trends is also important, since the latest developments in technology can be the catalyst for major changes in platform setups, algorithms, and/or user behavior, and all of these things can impact campaigns across channels. If you need help refreshing your social media strategy, connect with one of our social media marketing experts.
