When Best of Beauty launched in 1996, skin care was something best kept hidden behind your medicine cabinet. Passed down from your mom or grandmother, it wasn’t something many discussed openly, and there was certainly no social media where you could share recommendations or research ingredients among fellow beauty lovers. Fast-forward to 2025, and we live in a world where tweens are familiar with niacinamide and LED masks are discussed at dinner parties. And while it’s great that we’re all a lot more open about what we put on our faces—and why we put it there—we also face a challenge: too much information and too many options can make finding a product that actually works and suits your skin type feel like a Herculean task. Enter the 2025 Allure Best of Beauty Awards. The Skin category winners are probably the most difficult to choose and definitely the most hotly debated, but after months of thorough testing (and retesting), in the end, our editors came to a consensus on which cleansers, creams, peels, and spot treatments offer the most impressive results. And whether your skin’s dry or dehydrated, your acne’s hormonal or bacterial, you’ve got dark spots or dark circles, this list has options for all, reflecting the diversity in age, skin tone, and skin type of our tester pool. This year, you’ll discover exciting new launches among longtime favorites (looking at you, Differin Adapalene Gel 0.1%). We’ve got masks developed by dermatologists, peels engineered by aestheticians, and buzzy K-beauty imports on the list. So scroll through and prepare to find some new additions to your routine that you’ll want to shout about from the rooftops—although your Instagram Stories will also suffice. Best of Beauty Awards 2025: Skin Care Shop your favorite category or keep scrolling for the year's very best face creams, cleansers, and serums. Best Face Cleansers Ma:nyo Pure Cleansing Oil Why It Won: We see your hesitations about using a cleansing oil (greasy film, clogged pores), and raise you a bottle of Ma:nyo Pure Cleansing Oil. This K-beauty favorite transforms from a silky oil into a luxurious milk that cleans out pores and removes every type of makeup imaginable, without replacing it with a greasy film. Among its 14 plant oils are argan kernel and rice bran, which regulate sebum production and loosen dead skin cells, respectively—and, together, leave your pores looking significantly smaller and your skin significantly smoother. Tester feedback from commerce writer Lily Wohlner “By the time I’m ready to take off my makeup, I’ve usually had it on all day—so the moment I walk through the door, it needs to come off fast and easily. This cleansing oil melts off my makeup in just a few swipes without irritating my acne-prone skin, and although it’s fragrance-free, the natural scent from the oils gives off a subtle, spa-like vibe that makes for the perfect way to unwind after a long day out and about.” —Lily Wohlner, commerce writer Dr. Althea Pure Grinding Cleansing Balm Why It Won: Much of the buzz around the Dr. Althea Pure Grinding Cleansing Balm began around the packaging—an innovative twist dispenser that works like a pencil sharpener (remember pencils?) to shave off as much balm as you need to get cleansing. But that’s not the reason this took home the top spot. That’s down to the formula’s impressive makeup-melting, skin-soothing abilities, courtesy of nourishing oils (camellia sinensis and grape seed) and calming plant extracts (three forms of cica: madecassoside, Centella asiatica extract, and asiaticoside). Tester feedback from associate beauty director Sarah Kinonen “I don’t know what’s more fun: dispensing this cleanser with its twist top or watching it melt off all the makeup on my face in mere seconds." —Sarah Kinonen, associate beauty director Rose Ingleton MD SuperFruit Brightening Cleanser Why It Won: The Rose Ingleton MD SuperFruit Brightening Cleanser is exactly what you want from your daily face wash: a thorough, deep clean with a delicate touch. In addition to gentle, plant-derived surfactants, the gel-to-foam formula combines exfoliating sugarcane extract with hydrating hyaluronic acid that, when rinsed away, reveals skin that’s radiant and balanced—not rough and bothered. Tester feedback from editor in chief Jessica Cruel “Typically, I say cleanser is a throwaway step—something you don't need to spend too much energy worrying about, but after trying this one, I’ve changed my opinion. It doesn't leave skin feeling tight like most gel formulas and has a delicate exfoliant (sugarcane extract), making it gentle enough to use daily. I like to use it as the second step in a double-cleansing routine to remove sunscreen and New York City grime.” —Jessica Cruel, editor in chief Drunk Elephant Mello Marula Cream Cleanser Why It Won: Grab your softest bathrobe and plushiest slippers because comfort is the name of the game when you wash your face with Drunk Elephant Mello Marula Cream Cleanser . Coconut oil-derived surfactants sweep away all manners of makeup (even the water-resistant kind) without stripping skin of moisture, as colloidal oatmeal soothes and marula seed oil gives you a hydrating head start on the rest of your skin-care routine. Tester feedback from contributing writer Sophia Panych “Oh, how I absolutely adore this cleanser—it makes me look forward to washing my face at night. Our skin feels so clean yet so comfortable, and I appreciate how effective it is at getting rid of all my eye makeup. I never find myself rubbing my lids or following up with micellar water to get rid of smudges under my lash lines.” —Sophia Panych, contributing writer Best Face Mist Weleda Skin Food Hydrating Face Mist Why It Won: The only issue we have with the Weleda Skin Food Hydrating Face Mist is that it took the brand so long to launch it. For decades, makeup artists (and Allure editors, and a large cohort of models and celebrities) have relied on the Skin Food Original Ultra-Rich Cream to soothe and hydrate stressed complexions. Formulated with hyaluronic acid, glycerin, and the same botanical blend (calendula, chamomile, rosemary, pansy, and sunflower seed oil) as the cream, this milky mist refreshes our dull, thirsty skin during hot days cold snaps, and 3 p.m. slumps. Tester feedback from managing editor Alessandra Foresto “The Skin Food Original Ultra-Rich cream has been in my eczema-soothing kit since a makeup artist once used it on me back in the aughts. But as an everyday makeup-wearer, reapplying it as my skin got dry and flaky throughout the day has not been a practical option. This face-mist version lets me do just that. The formula is on the creamy side, so it really feels like liquid lotion. It leaves my skin soft and dewy, and has that classic Weleda Skin Food calendula and chamomile scent that I’ve always loved.” —Alessandra Foresto, managing editor Prequel Universal Skin Solution Dermal Spray Why It Won: If you’re in the market for a face mist with hypochlorous acid—the multitasking, antimicrobial ingredient dermatologists love for reducing inflammation, calming irritation, and keeping bacteria on the skin in check— Prequel Universal Skin Solution Dermal Spray is at the top of our lists. The simple yet refined formula earns praise from the pros and love from our editors who keep a bottle with them at all times and use it on everything from breakouts to piercings. With just three additional ingredients, including a mineral solution that helps dry skin retain moisture, it’s safe enough for anyone to use, even if you’re dealing with skin irritation or an eczema flare-up. Tester feedback from associate beauty director Sarah Kinonen “I’ve lost count of how many bottles of this mist I’ve emptied over the last year or two. I keep one in my gym bag (for a quick post-workout cleanse), my work bag (for random piercing irritation), and my bathroom cabinet (for my husband)—it’s a routine staple!” —Sarah Kinonen, associate beauty director Best Face Scrubs Personal Day Full Clarity Cleansing Powder Why It Won: Finely milled and fragrance-free, Personal Day Full Clarity Cleansing Powder was developed with acne-prone skin in mind (the founder, actor Lili Reinhart, created the brand after a lifetime of managing breakouts). Sprinkled into water to transform into a luscious lather, the rice powder physically polishes the skin, but it’s the zinc hyaluronate, azelaic acid, and papaya fruit extract that work together on a chemical level to zap breakouts and prevent them from happening in the first place. Tester feedback from senior beauty editor Jesa Marie Calaor “I’m usually loyal to gel cleansers, but this fragrance-free powder has been replenished twice in my shower. Less than a dime-sized amount mixed with water turns into a lightweight, silky lather that thoroughly removes sweat and face makeup. It doesn’t leave my skin feeling stripped or dry (a surprise, considering how dry my skin is), just soft and clean. I don’t have acne-prone skin, so I gave it to my best friend (who does) to try. She says it didn’t irritate her skin the way other cleansers have and echoed my sentiment that it doesn't leave it feeling stripped.” — Jesa Marie Calaor, senior beauty editor Kate Somerville ExfoliKate Intensive Exfoliating Treatment Why It Won: Many products claim to be a “facial in a bottle,” but Kate Somerville ExfoliKate Intensive Exfoliating Treatment puts its money where its papaya, pineapple, and pumpkin enzymes are. With sign-off from dermatologists and aestheticians, this radiance-enhancing resurfacer can work as a mask, scrub, and peel based on application. Superfine silica particles physically slough away dead skin cells while lactic and salicylic acids act as chemical exfoliants to loosen the bonds that hold said cells on the skin’s surface. Some tingling is expected, but rest assured that aloe vera, honey, and vitamin E are there to keep your skin comfortable and hydrated. Tester feedback from senior vice president of global talent Alison Ward Frank “This scrub offered the perfect amount of abrasion, leaving my skin feeling freshly scrubbed and glowing.” —Alison Ward Frank, senior vice president of global talent Best Essence Dr. Loretta Barrier Enhancing Milky Essence Why It Won: If you want your skin to have yoga-ball levels of bounce, we recommend adding Dr. Loretta Barrier Enhancing Milky Essence to your routine after cleansing and before applying your face cream. The ectoin in the formula provides antioxidant protection, while glycerin and niacinamide make your skin texture springy and your moisture barrier strong. Everyone will be asking when you found time to squeeze in a 12-day Vinyasa retreat. Tester feedback from research director Yulia Khabinky “This milky essence—which seeps in like a dream, with zero stickiness—has totally revived my dehydrated combination skin. I’m generally a skin-care minimalist, but this pairs so well with my serums that now I can’t imagine my routine without it.” —Yulia Khabinky, research director Best Exfoliating Toner Moon Juice Acid Potion Why It Won: Sure, you’ll find some woo-woo ingredients like reishi mushroom extract, clary oil, and honeysuckle flower extract, but they’re all there to bolster Moon Juice Acid Potion’s potent elixir of glycolic, lactic, and salicylic acids. The 25% concentration of acids means this exfoliating toner works fast—like magic, some might say—to give your pores an intense, deep clean and your complexion a supernatural glow. Tester feedback from research director Yulia Khabinksky “My skin freaks out if I don’t use an exfoliating toner. And what’s amazing about this one is that it works skin miracles overnight. My complexion changed over the course of eight hours, revealing smoother texture and a brightness I thought I left behind in my 30s.” —Yulia Khabinky, research director Best Face Serums Obagi Medical Professional-C Serum 20% Why It Won: The name looks pretty intense, but even our testers with the prickliest of complexions can tolerate the Obagi Medical Professional-C Serum 20%. And boy, are they thrilled they can. The double-digit dose of L-ascorbic acid visibly evens out skin tone and softens lines over time. Not to mention, it provides heavy-duty protection against environmental stressors when layered under SPF. Tester feedback from research director Yulia Khabinsky “Despite its high concentration of vitamin C, this serum feels gentle and nourishing on my sensitive skin, while imparting a lit-from-within glow,” —Yulia Khabinsky, research director. Dermalogica Dynamic Skin Strengthening Serum Why It Won: If you have a weakened moisture barrier, you can apply all the hydrating ingredients you want and your skin will still be begging for moisture by morning. Dermalogica Dynamic Skin Strengthening Serum solves this complexion conundrum by using peptides and squalane to reinforce the skin barrier, so it can keep all the plumping, hydrating ingredients in and all the damaging, external aggressors out. Tester feedback from deputy beauty director Elizabeth Siegel “The luminous finish of this serum perks up my skin instantly, while a futuristic peptide and good-old antioxidants and oils nourish it—a (glowing) win, win,” — Elizabeth Siegel, deputy beauty director Dieux Deliverance 3-in-1 Serum Why It Won: Not all heroes wear capes—some wear sleek navy-blue bottles. Dieux Deliverance 3-in-1 Serum comes to your skin’s rescue any time it’s feeling a bit stressed, like after a late-night Netflix binge—or an exfoliating acids binge. Its supercalming powers come from encapsulated cannabinoid complex that sweeps in to eradicate redness and soothe prickliness, as niacinamide and peptides support the skin barrier and plump up fine lines. The only thing this serum can’t save us from? The panic we feel when we’re about to run out. Tester feedback from features director Dianna Singh “If I could only use one serum for the rest of my life (the horror!) Dieux Deliverance 3-in-1 Serum would be it. It does it all—softens fine lines with peptides, evens out tone with niacinamide—and it does it all well.” — Dianna Singh, features director iS Clinical Retinol+ Emulsion 0.3 Why It Won: iS Clinical Retinol+ Emulsion 0.3 takes retinol—one of the few topical ingredients proven to effectively minimize wrinkles—and wraps it in a bed of bioidentical lipids, so it gets to skin cells faster and stronger. But the brand really means it when they say “retinol+.” While the star ingredient does a lot of the legwork when it comes to diminishing fine lines and speeding up cell turnover, it has help from some other heavy-hitting ingredients like bakuchiol, vitamin C, ectoin, and copper peptides. Tester feedback from content director Kara McGrath “A retinol is a win in my book if it doesn't irritate my skin overnight. When I woke up after using this one, my complexion was glowing.” —Kara McGrath, content director SkinCeuticals P-Tiox Why It Won: For those who want the wrinkle smoothing but without the needles or the retinol, SkinCeuticals P-Tiox uses niacinamide, laminaria extract, two peptides, and one exfoliating acid (gluconolactone) to reduce texture and soften pesky expression lines. Together, powerhouse peptides (dipeptide diaminobutyroyl and acetyl hexapeptide-8) work on the neurotransmitters responsible for moving facial muscles—certainly not as powerfully as Botox does, of course, but enough that we’ve woken up looking plump and refreshed every morning since adding it to our routine. Tester feedback from senior copy manager Leslie Lipton “Botox in a bottle? Yes, if that bottle is a vial attached to a needle full of the real neuromodulator. But if you don't or won't or can't go that route, then SkinCeuticals P-Tiox is a great alternative. After using it for a couple of months, I've actually been able to stretch out the time between visits to my dermatologist. Crow's-feet and fine lines are gently softened for a smoother, more refined texture.” — Leslie Lipton, senior copy manager Best Acne Treatments Hero Mighty Patch Original Why It Won: Most dermatologists would agree that pimple patches are a great way to tackle zits (whatever keeps you from picking!), and the Hero Mighty Patch Original continues to get it right in terms of accessibility, affordability, and effectiveness. The clear hydrocolloid stickers suck out all the gunk from your whiteheads and shield the skin to promote faster healing—all without anyone knowing they’re there. Tester feedback from creative development manager Lauren Alberti “The Mighty Patch Original is my favorite pimple-fighting tool. It is hard not to notice how it shortens the lifespan of a pimple, shrinking it after one overnight wear. You can even see the gunk it’s pulled out on the actual patch when it comes time to remove it. I’ve tried many pimple patches over the years, and I always come back to the Hero Mighty Patch.” —Lauren Alberti, creative development manager Aprilskin Carrotene IPMP Clearing Solution Why It Won: The Aprilskin Carrotene IPMP Clearing Solution doesn’t just zap zits with its pore-clearing combo of salicylic and polyhydroxy acids. The K-beauty spot treatment also exerts a calming influence over them with beta-carotene, niacinamide, and zinc oxide, all of which offer soothing and skin-healing benefits. Leave it on red, angry spots overnight, and they’ll be clearer and happier by morning. Tester feedback from senior manager of analytics and audience development Monica Perry “It's one of those rare overnight acne treatments that actually works. I had a red, medium-size zit on my cheek, and 12 hours later, the redness and swelling subsided. It was like 90% gone. It's that K-beauty magic.” —Monica Perry, senior manager of analytics and audience development Kate Somerville EradiKate 3% Sulfur Daily Foaming Cleanser Why It Won: Kate Somerville EradiKate 3% Sulfur Daily Foaming Cleanser relies on sulfur to do away with breakouts by killing bacteria, reducing sebum, and sloughing away dead skin cells. Better tolerated than other acne-killing ingredients, sulfur can still be drying, which this formula combats with its luxurious whipped texture and the addition of soothing honey and exfoliating rice bran extracts. Tester feedback from senior manager of analytics and audience development Monica Perry “It's a deep-cleaning cleanser that ‘doubles as a mask’—and I would definitely recommend using it as one, because the texture is so thick and creamy that it's a waste to just rinse it off. Plus, it's not super drying like some acne cleansers." — Monica Perry, senior manager of analytics and audience development Brixy Blemish Control Facial Cleanser Why It Won: Brixy Blemish Control Facial Cleanser packs all its ingredients into a soap-free bar to both eliminate breakouts and the need for plastic packaging. Salicylic acid penetrates deep into the pores to dissolve away acne-causing debris, while coddling the skin barrier with a cocktail of ceramides and niacinamide. Tester feedback from senior copy manager Leslie Lipton “Ugh! Why does that one awful pimple always seem to appear just when you're getting ready for a special event or a night out? While no product can promise to ban the blemish, using Brixy Blemish Control Facial Cleanser has definitely made those surprise eruptions way less frequent, and my face feels soft, not stripped." —Leslie Lipton, senior copy manager Caudalie Vinopure Acne Serum Why It Won: What do you get when you combine the gunk-dissolving benefits of salicylic and polyhydroxy acids with Caudalie ’s luxurious, grape-based approach? The most elegant, allover acne treatment out there. The Vinopure Acne Serum features salicylic acid derived from wintergreen leaves and antioxidant-rich palmitoyl grapeseed extract sourced from the brand’s vineyards in the South of France, which together leave skin clearer and smoother, without tightness or flakiness. We’ll toast to that. Tester feedback from shopping market editor Angela Trakoshis “I have a lot of scarring and dark spots on my temples, and after using this Caudalie serum consistently, I feel like I’ve watched them slowly fade away.” — Angela Trakoshis, shopping market editor Differin Adapalene Gel 0.1% Why It Won: Once only available by prescription, Differin’s Adapalene Gel 0.1% remains a dermatologist- and Allure editor-favorite for clearing up breakouts—and seven Best of Beauty wins proves it. The over-the-counter retinoid regulates skin cell turnover, and when applied all over the face, it’s unrivalled in its ability to unblock pores and reduce inflammation overtime, and targets acne to help prevent flare-ups in the future. Tester feedback from senior audience development director Lexi Herrick "As someone who has spent many years testing and trying various acne-targeting routines, this gel is comparable to prescription treatments. It's fast-acting, and when paired with a hydrating moisturizer, it doesn't cause any dryness. It really does keep breakouts at bay.” —Lexi Herrick, senior audience development director Best Eye Creams RoC Retinol Correxion Line Smoothing Eye Cream Why It Won: RoC Retinol Correxion Line Smoothing Eye Cream diminishes crow’s feet with a dose of the vitamin A derivative that’s safe enough to slather on your face’s most delicate area every day of the week (the skin-soothing vitamin E acetate also helps). The results and $22 price tag are hard to beat, hence this wrinkle reducer’s eighth appearance on this list. Tester feedback from executive beauty director Jenny Bailly “When I use RoC Retinol Correxion Line Smoothing Eye Cream daily for weeks running, the lines around my 48-year-old eyes are markedly smoother and my dark circles less pronounced (retinol also helps thicken skin, so those blood vessels under the eyes don’t peer through quite so much). And I’ve never had even the slightest irritation from the formula. And when I don’t use this eye cream regularly? (My job does involve playing the skin-care field.) I notice those crinkles and shadows creeping back.” —Jenny Bailly, executive beauty director Belif Aqua Bomb Eye Gel Why It Won: Jet lag (or even a giant charcuterie board) doesn’t stand a chance against Belif Aqua Bomb Eye Gel. Enhanced by its chilly ceramic applicator, the slick gel’s caffeine and hyaluronic acid work instantly to hydrate and debloat, and if you’re traveling, the slim tube tucks nicely into a TSA-approved liquid bag, making it the perfect travel companion to whip out at 35,000 feet—and once you land. Tester feedback from commerce editor Sarah Han “Belif The True Cream Aqua Bomb was one of the first Korean moisturizers I ever tried and liked, so I was hyped to find out they were finally launching a targeted undereye treatment. The built-in ceramic applicator is easy to use and mess-free, and the gel-cream formula—as cooling and refreshing as ever—gives my puffy, tired skin a welcome hit of moisture every morning.” —Sarah Han, commerce editor Tatcha The Brightening Eye Cream Why It Won: Good things come to those who wait, and in the case of Tatcha The Brightening Eye Cream, those good things include fresher-looking undereyes and less shadowy-looking dark circles. The vitamin C in the formula is delivered to the skin over the course of 12 hours, averting the risk of irritation from a sudden surge of actives, as antioxidants like niacinamide and pro-glutathione reinforce the skin barrier. Tester feedback from head of video Natalie Campbell “I have very sensitive skin, so I’m mindful of what products I use during my nighttime routine. Tatcha products have always been kind to my skin, not causing irritation or acne. After about a month of using this eye cream, I really noticed a slight brightness underneath my eyes. Also, I love the citrusy scent!” —Natalie Campbell, head of video Best Moisturizers Then I Met You Bong2 Bounce Cream Why It Won: If you find most barrier creams too heavy, let us introduce you to Then I Met You Bong2 Bounce Cream. The ultralight hydrator does everything a richer formula does for your barrier—protect (with honey, a humectant), strengthen (with ceramides), and moisture (with squalene)—but in a cooling gel texture that feels light and refreshing. You’ll love the juicy glow it gives, the result of a Korean citrus fruit called hallabong, which brings with it both brightening vitamin C and a delicious orangey scent. Tester feedback from commerce editor Sarah Han “You know the creams that feel like a burst of cooling, revitalizing hydration the moment they touch your skin? That's Then I Met You Bong2 Bounce Cream for you. True to its name, it makes my skin look bouncier, brighter, and glowing from within. (My vibe, always.) The citrusy hallabong-derived scent, like its marigold sibling (The Living Cleansing Balm, another all-time fave), is so scrumptious I wish I could bottle it up in a perfume.” —Sarah Han, commerce editor Rhode Barrier Butter Why It Won: The Rhode Barrier Butter is so beloved in the Allure office, we’re thinking of petitioning Hailey Bieber to produce it in a jumbo size so we can slather it on from the neck down. It hydrates the driest of complexions, whether that’s your natural skin type, the result of a psoriasis flare-up, or the side effects of a prescription retinoid. Flakes disappear and papery skin becomes pliant after applying this buttery balm-cream hybrid, which derives its max-strength moisturization from five molecular weights of hyaluronic acid that penetrate multiple layers of the skin, ceramides to rebuild weak barriers, and murumuru butter to lock it all in with a layer of glow. Tester feedback from social media manager Bianca Richards “I will continue shouting this from the rooftops: this is, hands down, my favorite moisturizer of all time—so much so that I need a lifetime supply. As someone with dry, temperamental skin, I find so much joy in its balm-like texture, which delivers the perfect amount of moisture my skin desperately needs and, over time, gives me a more hydrated, healthy, toned, and plump glow. Dare I say it’s truly life-changing.” — Bianca Richards, social media manager Olay Super Cream With Sunscreen SPF 30 Why It Won: Olay Super Cream With Sunscreen SPF 30 takes its multitasking duties seriously. It provides significant UV protection via chemical filters like avobenzone and octocrylene, but without skimping on its other tasks of hydrating, smoothing, firming, and brightening. Even more impressive? It does all of that while feeling like a luxury cream four times the price. Tester feedback from associate beauty director Sarah Kinonen “I'm not usually a multiuse skin-care kinda girl. I like my products to do one and one thing only. But this Olay formula might have changed my stance on two-in-ones (or, really, five-in-ones). It's rich but easily blendable, doesn't leave behind a cast, and has a decent SPF level my dermatologist would approve of. What's not to like?” —Sarah Kinonen, associate beauty director Best Face Oil Elemis Superfood Facial Oil Why It Won: Elemis’ cushy cleansing balms are the stuff of beauty legend, but its Superfood Facial Oil deserves equal icon status. It’s hard to find a plant or fruit oil that’s not included in this glow-inducing mixture. Sweet almond, cucumber, flaxseed, broccoli, rice bran, rose hip, and radish oils are all present to deliver high-impact antioxidant power, barrier-supporting omega fatty acids, and the healthy radiance of someone who gets their daily serving of greens. Tester feedback from associate beauty director Sarah Kinonen “I’m not a big fan of facial oils, but this one is just so lightweight and refreshing that it’s hard not to like it. I like to tap it over my moisturizer at night to seal in moisture.” —Sarah Kinonen, associate beauty director. Best Face Masks OleHenriksen Violet Ice Cold Plunge Pore Mask Why It Won: Anyone who's experienced a cold plunge knows how energized you feel once you’ve emerged from the freezing-cold water. Ole Henriksen (the man himself is a proud Dane) looked to this Scandinavian tradition when developing its Violet Ice Cold Plunge Pore Mask, a deep-cleaning kaolin clay mask that goes on purple and feels chilly on the skin. Once rinsed off, your pores are inexplicably less noticeable and your face ridiculously refreshed. Tester feedback from associate beauty director Sarah Kinonen “The first time I tried this mask was, quite literally, during a cold plunge. I slathered on the lavender paste 10 minutes before plopping into an ice bath—then hastily pulled out after two solid minutes of soaking. My limbs immediately felt revitalized, and after rinsing off the mask, my skin showed the same reenergized results: clear and smooth.” —Sarah Kinonen, associate beauty director Summer Fridays Jet Lag Mask Why It Won: You don’t need to have come off a red-eye to enjoy Summer Fridays Jet Lag Mask’s skin-reviving benefits. Maybe you’re a parent struggling through a toddler sleep regression, or a college student scrambling to complete a term paper. Either way, exhausted skin gets a serious pampering session from the cushiony cream’s hydrating hyaluronic acid and soothing bisabolol, plus some reinvigoration from pore-refining, radiance-inducing niacinamide. Tester feedback from editor in chief Jessica Cruel “As editor in chief, I travel a lot. And the first thing I do when I get to the hotel is shower away all the airport crud, and revive my skin after sitting in the dry plane air by layering on moisturizing products. For my face, that means I am slathering on this Jet Lag Mask. I like to wash my face, apply it, then hop into the shower for a steam facial.” —Jessica Cruel, editor in chief Dr. Idriss Major Fade Flash Mask Why It Won: As a mom, content creator, and board-certified dermatologist, Dr. Shereene Idriss, MD, (a.k.a. PillowTalkDerm), knows a thing or two about being busy. That’s why 10 minutes is all you need for the Dr. Idriss Major Fade Flash Mask to reveal brighter, more radiant skin. If you’re patient and incorporate the mask into your weekly skin routine, the clarifying trio of glycolic, lactic, and tranexamic acids will also start to soften the appearance of existing acne scars and hyperpigmentation. Tester feedback from features director Dianna Singh “I have a healthy degree of skepticism towards any product that claims to work in a flash, but Dr. Idriss Major Fade Flash Mask truly makes a difference in a single 10-minute application. After rinsing it off, my skin is noticeably brighter—and using it a couple times a week for eight weeks has made a difference in my dark spots.” —Dianna Singh, features director Best Face Sunscreens Supergoop Unseen Sunscreen SPF 50 Why It Won: When Supergoop launched its Unseen Sunscreen SPF 40 in 2018, the brand had a checklist of criteria. The final result needed to be invisible, weightless, scentless, and makeup-gripping, all of which were achieved with flying colors—actually, with no color at all since the formula is completely clear on all skin tones. Almost seven years later, our editors still get excited every time they pull it out of their medicine cabinets, especially now that it's been reformulated with a higher SPF 50 . Tester feedback from senior art director Ingrid Fowler “I love how easily this product blends in. It's like magic. As soon as you rub it, it disappears without even a little bit of stickiness—your hands feel completely dry! Plus, it's clear, so it leaves zero white cast. This is definitely a favorite.” —Ingrid Fowler, senior art director Isdin Fusion Water Magic SPF 40 Why It Won: The Isdin Fusion Water Magic SPF 40 is a facial sunscreen masquerading as a lightweight face lotion. It’s silky, not pasty, hydrating, not greasy, and there’s no sunscreen-y scent to speak of, even though the chemical blockers octocrylene, homosalate, octisalate, and avobenzone are clearly written on the ingredient list. Makeup wearers will appreciate that it also moonlights as a lovely primer. Tester feedback from senior beauty editor Jesa Marie Calaor “This is the only sunscreen my husband will put on without complaining the whole time. It's so lightweight, not-at-all greasy, and melts onto skin with that satisfying squish. We both love how it doesn't melt and drip into our eyes on long hikes in the sun.” —Jesa Marie Calaor, senior beauty editor Dearcloud Sunny Defense SPF Stick SPF 50+ PA++++ Why It Won: With Dearcloud Sunny Defense SPF Stick SPF 50+ PA++++ stashed in your bag, you have no excuse not to top up your sun protection every two hours. The K-beauty favorite glides on like a dream, disappears without a trace, and actually makes your skin look smoother and glowier since its UV filters come alongside hydrating hyaluronic acid and soothing Centella asiatica . Tester feedback from visuals director Kathryne Hall "The shape makes it easy to apply on my face, and its lightweight formula is so lightweight that I forget I’m wearing it,” —Kathryne Hall, visuals director Shiseido Urban Environment Mineral Clear Sunscreen SPF 50 Why It Won: Don’t be mistaken by the milky-thin texture of Shiseido Urban Environment Mineral Clear Sunscreen SPF 50, or by its white tint straight out of the bottle. The elegant liquid boasts powerful UV blockers (4.5% titanium dioxide and 17.2% zinc oxide, to be exact) that dry down completely clear once massaged into the skin—something we made sure occurred for every person who tested it. Tester feedback from senior beauty editor Jesa Marie Calaor “With my extra-dry complexion, I am always looking for hydrating products that leave me with a summery, dewy glow. This sunscreen gives me exactly that. The mineral formula is more like a fluid than a lotion, and quickly melts down to blend in with my medium-tan skin.” —Jesa Marie Calaor, senior beauty editor Best Face Peel PSA Skincare Follow The Light Multi Acids & Vitamin C Peel Why It Won: Dullness? Don’t even know her. Applying PSA Skincare Follow The Light Multi Acids & Vitamin C Peel once a week for 20 minutes ensures you put your brightest (and smoothest, and even-est) face forward—the benefits of putting glycolic, lactic, and ascorbic acids together in one formula. Tester feedback from senior manager of analytics and audience development Monica Perry “I'm new to peels and I have sensitive skin, so finding this weekly treatment for hyperpigmentation that doesn't irritate my skin—even if I get sucked into the K-drama I'm watching and exceed the recommended 20-minute treatment time—has been great." —Monica Perry, senior manager of analytics and audience development YSE Beauty Your Favorite Ex Exfoliating Pads Why It Won: Soaked in grape extract and glycolic and polyhydroxy acids, the YSE Beauty Your Favorite Ex Exfoliating Pads help you break up with the dead skin cells causing your skin to look sad and sallow. Swipe the wonderfully oversized, self-neutralizing pads over your face and chest and get ready to meet a new level of luminosity—and maybe a new fling. Tester feedback from commerce editor Sarah Han “While I take my skin care pretty seriously, I can’t always be bothered to apply a mask, wait for it to do its thing, and then wash it off (mess and all). So if I can achieve intense exfoliation via the convenience of toner pads, my skin’s the better for it. Glycolic acid and PHAs refine my pores, but I don’t find that my skin stings, even though I really go in on my nose and T-zone and swipe multiple rounds. It might be because of the ectoin and sodium polyglutamate, which are the acids’ soothing counterparts, but whatever the case, my skin looks glowing (a little redness is par for the course, and it clears up quite fast) and my pores look a little less obvious.” —Sarah Han, commerce editor Shani Darden Skin Care Triple Acid Signature Peel Why It Won: Other than having A-list facialist Shani Darden on speed dial, the Triple Acid Signature Peel is the best way to get your skin really glowing. The monthly treatment (or bimonthly, if your skin is resilient) is like a professional peel in a box. Similar to an in-office treatment, step one is a trio of extra-strength exfoliating acids (lactic, glycolic, and mandelic), and step two is a clay mask to simultaneously neutralize the acids and deep clean the skin. Don’t be surprised if people start asking you for your aesthetician’s phone number in two months. Tester feedback from executive beauty director Jenny Bailly “I love it so much. I use it before every event, trip, and potential photo opportunity to make sure my skin is silky and glowing so I’m sure to get at least one ‘oooh, your skin looks great.’” —Jenny Bailly, executive beauty director (who has not had a professional peel since Shani Darden launched this at-home kit in 2023.) Best Hair-Removal Products Flamingo Refillable Dermaplane Razor Why It Won: When it comes to de-fuzzing your face, the Flamingo Refillable Dermaplane Razor was designed with ease in mind, from the weighted and no-slip grip handle that gives you lots of control to the tab you press down on to release the blade when you’re ready to replace it. Our testers also loved how the Japanese stainless steel blade gently exfoliates and easily glides along and around the contours of your face. Tester feedback from senior news editor Nicola Dall’Asen “You wouldn't know it based on the $14 price tag, but the Flamingo Refillable Dermaplane Razor feels luxurious as all get-out. Its metal handle isn't just shiny; it's heavy, meaning it glides over skin with zero to no effort. And IMO, its disposable razor cartridges are sharper than most.” —Nicola Dall’Asen, senior news editor Best Skin-Care Devices Shark CryoGlow Red Blue & Infrared iQLED Face Mask & Under Eye Cooling Why It Won: There are LED masks. And then there’s the Shark CryoGlow Red Blue & Infrared iQLED Face Mask & Under Eye Cooling , which is in a league all its own. Not only does it fit better than most thanks to the adjustable Velcro straps, but it’s also two tools in one. Underneath the rigid mask, you have built-in cryotherapy patches so you can depuff your undereyes as you bask in the skin-reviving glow of red, blue, and/or infrared lights. Four preset treatments—better aging, skin clearing, skin sustain, and the LED-free undereye revive—can be selected with the attached remote, all of which last under 15 minutes. Just enough time to snap some selfies and scare your housemates. Tester feedback from shopping market editor Angela Trakoshis “This is the coolest beauty technology I’ve ever tried—bold statement, I know. I’m not lying when I say I’m obsessed with it. I use the skin-clearing setting along with the undereye cooling plates nightly and have seen improvement in acne, hyperpigmentation, and any puffiness under my eyes. Plus, it lays on my face so comfortably—a major plus for these bulky masks.” —Angela Trakoshis, shopping market editor ZIIP HALO Why It Won: For being one of the most petite and portable microcurrent devices on the market, the ZIIP Halo is also one of the most powerful, with multiple-strength settings and two kinds of current. Microcurrents with nanocurrents target the skin cells at different levels of your skin’s surface to stimulate collagen production, which, with consistency, the brand claims provides longer-lasting benefits. For us, it’s the immediate eyebrow-lifting, cheekbone-carving, jawline-sharpening effects—and corresponding app with easy-to-follow tutorials—that are more than enough to warrant the investment. Tester feedback from contributing writer Sophia Panych “I’ve been a beauty editor for nearly 15 years, but admit I was nervous to try microcurrent at home, for no other reason than I was nervous about shocking myself. The ZIIP Halo is the tool that convinced me to try it because it just makes everything so easy , especially if you follow the facial treatments on the app. The device might be powerful, but with enough of the conductor gel, you don’t feel a thing…. take it from a scaredy-cat like me. Now it’s a nonnegotiable part of my routine before a big event; in under 12 minutes, my cheekbones are sharper, my smile lines softer, and my eyebrows have been raised a couple of centimeters…. at least for a few hours.” —Sophia Panych, contributing writer TheraFace Depuffing Wand Why It Won: Abracadabra! The TheraFace Depuffing Wand works its temperature-changing magic to banish puffiness and add brightness. With just a press of a button (we’ve never met an easier-to-use skin-care tool), the heat settings improve circulation, increase product absorption, and give skin a nice glow; the cool settings combat swelling, minimize the appearance of pores, and refresh your complexion. Tester feedback from shopping director Shanna Shipin “I wake up looking like a marshmallow every day, and let me tell you, this tool is your shortcut to a snatched face. It cools down (and heats up) so incredibly fast that you don't feel like you're adding any time at all to your routine. I love the cold setting for sculpting in the morning and the heat setting for the evening. When using the cool setting in the A.M., I can immediately see a difference in my face, especially in helping carve out the hollows of my cheeks. I also love how soothing the heat setting is before bed—the warmth is supposed to help with product absorption. The wand has a nice, tapered top and doesn't pull at my skin. I also don't have to run it over my face a million times, which is important with the cold setting (hello, brain freeze!).” —Shanna Shipin, shopping director Written by Sophia Panych How does Allure choose the best products for Best of Beauty Skin? To determine the Best of Beauty Skin winners, Allure editors and contributors test thousands of skin-care products over many months to find the formulas that deliver real results. Each product is evaluated for its ingredients, efficacy, texture, packaging, and performance over time. In addition to individually testing each product and scrutinizing its claims against our tester experiences, we also rely on experts, like board-certified dermatologists and cosmetic chemists, to vet the ingredients and formulas of some products. This enables us to confirm the accuracy of any self-reported results or promises made by brands and companies. Are Best of Beauty Skin winners good for sensitive skin? Several of the winning products in the Best of Beauty Skin category are fragrance-free, noncomedogenic, or specifically formulated for sensitive or reactive skin. You’ll find moisturizers, sunscreens, cleansers, and treatments that are gentle yet effective, often tested by editors with sensitive skin who have (or are prone to) rosacea, eczema, or easily irritated skin. However, there are also products on this list with potent active ingredients, such as retinol or alpha-hydroxy acids, that those with sensitive skin may want to avoid. To discover more options for prickly complexions, explore our Sensitive Skin winners list. What complexion types do Allure ’s Best of Beauty Skin winners work for? The reason our Best of Beauty Skin category is so comprehensive (42 products!) is that it’s important to us to have a winner for every skin type and almost every dermatological concern possible. We’ve awarded products that are suitable for oily, dry, combination, acne-prone, and mature skin—and target a wide range of issues from dark spots and dehydration to fine lines and loss of firmness. Does the Best of Beauty Skin category include drugstore or luxury skin-care brands? Yes. The winners span a full spectrum of price points, from budget-friendly staples available at the drugstore (like Olay Super Cream With Sunscreen SPF 30) to premium, high-performance products from renowned aestheticians (looking at you, Shani Darden Skin Care Triple Acid Signature Peel). For even more options, you can find our favorite products of the year under $24 in our Steals category and explore the most impressive indulgent beauty buys of 2025 in our Splurges category. What kinds of skin-care products are included in the Best of Beauty Awards? The list of Best of Beauty Skin winners features products that target almost every complexion concern imaginable and fit every skin-care routine, whether that’s 12 steps or the bare minimum. We’ve got cleansers, moisturizers, serums, face oils, eye creams, spot treatments, toners, treatment masks, sunscreens, and devices. Every product and tool is tested for its efficacy, inclusivity, and ability to live up to its claims. Allure 's Best of Beauty Awards? Discover more 2025 Best of Beauty winners: Best of Beauty 2025: Sensitive Skin Winners Best of Beauty 2025: Steals Winners Best of Beauty 2025: Nails Winners Watch us test our 2025 Best of Beauty Skin-Care winners:
