Data Analytics Services & Costs at ScienceSoft ScienceSoft provides flexible service options to satisfy any data analytics needs. Data analytics services costs may range from $10,000 to $1,000,000+, depending on the service type and the complexity of analytics requirements. The major cost factors include data quality and complexity, data processing specifics (batch or real-time), characteristics of existing infrastructure and data sources, the necessity for big data and ML/AI techs, and more. ScienceSoft’s consultants help you choose an optimal data analytics strategy and guide you on designing, developing, implementing and improving a proprietary data analytics solution. Costs: $10K–$50K+ Go for data analytics consulting Data analytics implementation We design and implement an analytics solution tailored to your operational needs and industry specifics. With a single point of truth, sexy reports, and role-dependent workflows, you get a reliable tool for making accurate data-driven decisions. To ensure long-term success, we also provide hands-on training for your team. Costs: $30K–$1M+ Go for data analytics implementation Data analytics modernization ScienceSoft helps upgrade your existing data analytics solution. We can increase solution performance and accuracy, create new reports and visuals, add new features, migrate the system to other techs, optimize the TOC, enhance security, achieve regulatory compliance, and more. Costs: $20K–$200K+ Go for data analytics modernization ScienceSoft implements a robust data management framework to achieve efficiency and security in all data-related processes, including data collection, transmission, storage, access, analysis, and reporting. Costs: $30K–$1M+ Go for data management services Building Data Analytics Solutions for Different Domains A data analytics company, ScienceSoft helps businesses from 30+ industries integrate, aggregate, and analyze various data types from multiple data sources to address their most ambitious needs at department and enterprise levels. By industry Healthcare Patient health condition monitoring, condition-based alerting. AI-powered patient treatment optimization. Assessment of patient risks and personalized care plan recommendations. Proactive care (defining trends and patterns in patient condition requiring a doctor’s attention). Fraud detection in healthcare insurance. Medical staff workload prediction and work shifts optimization. Optimization of clinical space and equipment usage. Read all Insights for informed study design (e.g., comparison of trial sites, historical trial analytics). Trial progress monitoring (e.g., enrollment rates, patient disposition). Trial findings analytics, including pharmacology and medical device trial parameters, results comparison, pattern detection. Adverse events alerting and forecasting. Post-market surveillance and RWE analytics. Laboratory operations and inventory management optimization. Insights into trial supply management. Predictive analytics (e.g., for projected enrollments, study outcomes). Read all Monitoring operational lab KPIs (e.g. turnaround time, cost per test, volume of unnecessary tests). Predictive equipment maintenance. Inventory management optimization and demand forecasting. Quality control analytics. Automated test result interpretation. Clinical trial and R&D analytics. Read all Banking, Financial Services and Insurance Continuous monitoring of bank stability indicators. Institution performance forecasts. 360-degree view of customers. Identifying cross-selling and upselling opportunities. Insights into customer service management. What-if modeling for timely mitigation of market, credit, and operational risks. Fraud detection. Automated compliance checks and non-compliance alerts. Read all AI-powered insurance recommendations tailored for certain customer segments. Finance analytics with underwriting profitability monitoring and product-specific scenario modeling. Monitoring insurance-related risks with stress testing. Operational analytics insights for improving claims processing, customer service, and other internal processes. Workforce analytics for agents' performance assessment, sales incentive programs adjustment, and top talent retention. Insights into the performance of external agencies and partners. Predictive and prescriptive analytics for insurance planning and optimization. Read all Providing insights into borrowers' creditworthiness and predicting default and NPL risks. Lending products performance analytics. AI-powered recommendations for loan portfolio optimization. Identifying bottlenecks in underwriting, loan approval, servicing, debt collection, and other operational processes. Continuous compliance monitoring and non-compliance alerting. Read all Portfolio performance analytics with asset-specific benchmarking. Factor exposure, performance attribution, and risk attribution analysis. Continuous monitoring of market, credit, and liquidity risks. What-if scenarios under various risk factors and portfolio rebalancing options. Identifying insider trading, pump and dump schemes, HFT manipulation, and other kinds of fraud. Insights into tax management. Continuous compliance monitoring and alerting. Read all More Industries Overall equipment effectiveness analysis and optimization. Manufacturing process quality optimization. Equipment maintenance scheduling. Power consumption forecasting and optimization. Production loss root cause analysis. Read all Retail business performance analysis, monitoring sales and profitability. Demand analysis and forecasting. Multi-echelon inventory optimization. Assortment and merchandising planning and optimization. Data-driven recommendations on optimal product promotion activities. Read all Operational capacity planning and optimization based on the analysis of incoming shipments, customer delivery schedules, vehicles availability, and personnel shift schedules. Predictive analytics for vehicle maintenance (failure prediction, recommendation of maintenance actions, etc.). Vehicle demand forecasting. Predicting optimal amounts of fuel needed based on the analysis of driving patterns. IoT data analytics (data on cargo temperature, humidity, etc.; data on driver behavior, data on vehicle condition, etc.) for safe cargo delivery. Read all Providing insights into market trends and analyzing property values to support informed investment decisions. Automated buyer-seller matching and customer-specific property recommendations. Comprehensive portfolio management with expenses tracking and cash-flow forecasts. Calculating and monitoring rental, occupancy rates, and other property performance KPIs. Multidimensional customer segmentation with AI-powered suggestions on segment-specific targeting. Predictive analytics to forecast property value or identify property that is likely to be sold or bought in the near future. Read all Multidimensional customer segmentation to enable automated customer-agent matching, effective ad targeting, and personalized services. Analyzing customer sentiment and satisfaction for data-driven service improvement. Operational analytics to improve staff performance and process efficiency. Predictive analytics to forecast resource needs and optimize staff allocation. Financial analytics based on internal and external data to detect revenue leakage and improve business profitability. Read all Continuous monitoring of energy generation and distribution with AI-powered optimization recommendations. Analyzing renewable energy share in the energy grid. Predictive and preventive maintenance analytics. Analyzing energy consumption patterns to enable efficient resource allocation. Predictive analytics to forecast energy demand. Read all Exploration management analytics to identify optimal drilling locations and estimate oil and gas reserves. Predictive analytics for estimated ultimate recovery and production rates forecasting. Equipment predictive and preventive maintenance. Environmental impact insights. Real-time monitoring of processes and assets (e.g., production, transportation, pipelines, storage tanks, pumping sections) with immediate alerting. Refinery optimization and quality control analytics. Insights into supply chain management. Read all Continuous network performance monitoring and analytics to forecast excess capacity areas and optimize network capacity. Providing insights into customer management to foresee and prevent churn, tailor offerings, and increase customer retention. Identifying operational bottlenecks and providing AI-powered optimization recommendations. Read all Analyzing students' and parents' feedback on the quality of teaching and the learning environment to improve the service. Students' performance analytics with alerts on potential intervention. Insights into the patterns of learning platforms usage to enhance teaching and learning outcomes. Enrollment forecasting for resource allocation optimization. Financial analytics with insights into grant revenue, endowment value, cash balance, wages, and more. Analyzing teachers' performance and providing insights into top talent attraction and retention. Read all Tracking and analyzing customer interactions, preferences, and feedback to optimize customer relationship management. Operational analytics, including service quality and employee performance analysis. Providing real-time personalized recommendations on destinations, lodging options, events, etc. AI-powered pricing optimization based on market demand, individual customer preferences, and predicted price movements. Analyzing results of promotions, discounts, loyalty programs and their influence on business profitability. Forecasting demand to maximize revenue from hotel rooms, flights, and other related services. Read all Multidimensional audience segmentation with granular comparisons, e.g., demographic breakdown vs. genre audience. Audience engagement analytics with insights into cross-platform customer behavior and preferences. Real-time personalized content recommendations. Content performance analytics. Forecasting content demand and popularity, including box office success. Tracking the effectiveness of advertising and marketing campaigns with real-time targeting adjustment. Tracking compliance with regulatory standards, including those related to personal data handling. Read all By analytics area Monitoring revenue, expenses and profitability of a company. Profitability analysis and financial performance management. Budget planning, formulating long-term business plans. Financial risk forecasting and management. Read all Identifying demand drivers, consumer demand forecasting and planning. Supplier performance monitoring and evaluation. Predictive route optimization. Determining the optimal level of inventory to meet the demand and prevent stockouts, inventory planning and management. Identifying patterns and trends throughout the supply chain for enhanced supply chain risks management. Read all Sales channel analytics. Pricing analytics to design pricing strategies. Identifying and predicting sales trends. Conducting product performance analysis. Tracking customer interactions with a product to identify pain points leading to churn. Conducting competitor benchmarking. Read all Customer behavior analysis and predictive modeling. Customer segmentation for tailored sales and marketing campaigns. Personalized cross-selling and upselling offers for extended customer lifetime value. Predicting customer attrition and customer churn risk management. Customer sentiment analysis. Read all Real-time asset monitoring and tracking. Predictive and preventive maintenance, developing asset maintenance strategies. Planning asset investments. Asset usage analytics, planning and scheduling asset modernization/replacement/disposal strategies. Read all HR analytics Employee/department performance monitoring and analysis. Employee experience and satisfaction analysis. Employee retention strategy optimization and management. Employee hiring strategy analysis and optimization. Labor cost analytics. Read all An Example of ScienceSoft Turning Information Overload into Actionable Insights Here’s how ScienceSoft helped Invention Machine create a semantic search engine that transformed how enterprises innovate. By turning vast, unstructured knowledge bases into actionable insights, the solution empowered engineers and researchers to generate better ideas, accelerate R&D, and maximize ROI. Client challenges ScienceSoft's solution Difficulty navigating huge, heterogeneous knowledge bases (patents, research papers, internal docs) Semantic indexing of documents enabling precise Subject-Action-Object and Boolean search Innovation slowed by manual information discovery Automated semantic search across patents, scientific effects, and technical content Risk of reinventing existing solutions due to poor knowledge reuse Centralized knowledge capture and sharing with cross-domain search and notifications Inefficient competitive and technology trend analysis Tools for patent analysis, scientific effect exploration, and market trend identification Fragmented R&D workflows across teams and geographies Web portal with integrated semantic search, document indexing, and collaborative tools Limited transparency in problem definition and solution evaluation Structured methodology for defining problems, prioritizing solutions, and performing value analysis Need to reduce R&D costs and speed up time-to-market Accelerated idea-to-product conversion through analytics-driven decision support About ScienceSoft 36 years in data analytics and data science. 20 years in business intelligence and data warehouse services. 12 years in big data. 9 years in Microsoft Power BI services. Competencies in machine learning, artificial intelligence, and image analysis. In-house PMO to support large-scale and distributed projects. Expertise in Lean, Agile , and DevOps methodologies. PM certifications (PSM I, PMP, and more). ISO 9001 and ISO 27001 -certified to assure the quality of the data analysis services and the security of client data. Our awards and partnerships Quality Services – Satisfied Clients We first contacted ScienceSoft to get expert advice on the creation of the centralized analytical solution . After we got a clear project roadmap, we commissioned ScienceSoft to develop a part of the solution, covering invoicing. The system automates data integration from different sources and provides visibility into the invoicing process. We have already engaged ScienceSoft in supporting the solution and would definitely consider ScienceSoft as an IT vendor in the future. bioAffinity Technologies hired ScienceSoft to help in the development of its automated data analysis software for detection of lung cancer using flow cytometry. In addition to the solid technical expertise shown by ScienceSoft, its developers demonstrated a profound understanding of laboratory software specifics and integrations. We would recommend hiring ScienceSoft to anyone looking for a highly productive and solution-driven team. We commissioned ScienceSoft to build a flexible database with user interfaces for managing our test data stored as time-based CVS files. ScienceSoft delivered a fully functioning solution regardless of the new requirements that appeared during the project. We are planning to extend the logic of our reports and dashboards and data processing options in our solution, and we’ll definitely be considering ScienceSoft as our partner in this initiative. How We Ensure Smooth Sailing of Our Projects With over three decades of experience in analytics services and established project management practices, we drive project goals regardless of time and budget constraints as well as changing requirements. We utilize our ISO 9001-certified quality management system throughout the project life cycle. We assess project risks in advance to provide realistic estimation of time & budget . We foster cooperation, trust, and respect to achieve effective teamwork . Being ISO 27001-certified, we guarantee that we collect and store your business data securely . We maintain and update accurate project documentation to support future software evolution. We ensure full transparency of project progress with the help of custom KPIs, tailored reporting procedures, and efficient task-tracking systems. Having worked with 30+ diverse industries, we speak your language and understand your domain's unique challenges and needs. To ensure high user adoption and smooth knowledge transfer, we are ready to conduct user training for your team. From Basic Reporting to Advanced Analytics and Automation – You Can Get Anything with ScienceSoft A solution to securely consolidate your data into a database or a warehouse via case-specific methods, including ETL/ELT pipelines, data virtualization, and propagation. You get a data management framework and enterprise storage that satisfy your requirements for data quality, availability, security, analytics, reporting, and regulatory compliance. You can get big data solutions for various use cases, including analytics systems that help drive insights from voluminous data of high velocity and solutions to automate business and production processes (e.g., financial fraud detection, remote patient monitoring, inventory optimization). You can also get an XaaS app that efficiently handles requests from thousands of users (e.g. ecommerce, ride-sharing, dating apps). A system that supports data-driven decision-making through scheduled reports, ad hoc BI queries, natural language user interface, interactive dashboards, role-specific data views , and other features that facilitate the processes of exploring data and driving insights from it. You get pre-built and custom visuals that are clear and easy-to-read and illustrate data at both panoramic and granular angles. See How AI Simplifies Data Analytics The demo shows the capabilities of a Power BI chatbot integrated with MS Teams. Users ask natural language questions on the company’s financial performance via the familiar messenger interface. The chatbot returns answers in form of charts, graphs, and diagrams, adjusts answers based on requests, and enables navigation to the relevant Power BI Report. How You Benefit from ScienceSoft as Your Analytics Partner Time-saving automation We set up automated data management and governance processes and implement self-service BI to ensure you can easily create ad hoc reports without any coding skills, and your IT team doesn’t have to manage data manually. Easy-to-read reports We use various data visualization techniques to highlight the most important analytics insights in each report and make them easy to scan at one glance. Reliable insights due to trustworthy data We consolidate your disparate data sources into a DWH to serve as a single point of truth for enterprise-wide analytics. Our robust ETL processes will guarantee your data is always accurate, consistent, and complete to facilitate dependable analytics. Value-focused data analytics As an expert analytics consultancy, we don’t simply build reports — our goal is to help you fully utilize the potential of your analytics solution and discover new optimization opportunities hidden in your data (e.g., for operational cost reduction, productivity improvements). How to build a data warehouse from scratch: approaches, plan, software, and costs ScienceSoft shares experience on efficient construction of a data warehouse (DWH): approaches, plan, skills required, software we recommend, and DWH development costs. Data warehouse software: 5 best data warehousing tools Get a structured overview of data warehouse software: key features of a DWH system and a list of our proven tools to build a DWH solution. Best software to build a data warehouse in the cloud: features, benefits, costs ScienceSoft’s cloud data warehouse consultants present the list of 6 cloud-based data warehouse platforms that cover 99.9% use cases in data warehousing. Business Intelligence implementation: plan, software, costs, and required skills ScienceSoft advises on business intelligence implementation in your company: plan, tools, costs, skills for building an effective BI and analytics solution. Real-time data warehouse: architecture, use cases, and key techs ScienceSoft’s data engineers describe the architecture of a real-time data warehouse, outline its key components and use cases, and list the most reliable techs. We are excited to hear about your data analytics needs!
