Optimize business outcomes with AI-fueled analytics solutions Our clients see measurable growth in acquisition, retention, and efficiency through our connected data and tech-led approach. We help brands evolve and innovate in these areas: Acquisition Retention & Extension Persona Creation Segmentation Predictive Modeling Marketing Efficiency Measurement Experimentation Powered by connected identity and data Acxiom’s Real ID is embedded within the adtech and martech ecosystems as well as all major marketing clouds, offers unparalleled scale, accuracy, and flexibility. Our analytics solutions are fueled by industry leading consumer data across 2.6 billion global consumers, with over 10k+ unique attributes to deliver more meaningful customer insights. driving additional visits for a restaurant chain for a retail TV ad campaign to reactivate lapsed card holders for a credit card issuer through multi-touch attribution for a financial institution defining their ideal customer for a utility company Faster, better decisions Accelerate growth through sharper customer insights, AI-powered optimization, and actionable performance intelligence. Four ways to build analytics acumen Growth & Performance Analytics Analyses and reports to find audiences, inform strategy, and grow business Audience Analytics Identify, build, and model audiences to meet brand objectives effectively and efficiently​ Data Science Gather and analyze campaign performance data to identify areas of improvement (AI/ML) Data Management & Visualization Design and scale data and analysis outputs for integrating, cleansing, and governing data Healthcare payer saves $6M by retaining at-risk members Acxiom’s predictive retention model ranked members by risk level, enabling proactive outreach to those at highest risk for attrition and achieving over 200% in marketing ROI. Test, learn, and make data-driven decisions Acxiom makes it easy to refine your models and approaches based on evolving consumer behavior, market conditions, and business goals, so you can make better decisions at each stage of the marketing funnel and accelerate innovation and product development. Full-funnel marketing analytics Acxiom provides solutions that leverage data and analytics to improve customer acquisition, retention, and growth strategies, including MMM and MTA. From developing look-alike audiences to identifying churn indicators and providing detailed segmentation, we help brands stand out from the competition. Insights derived from first-party data With access to unified data, tools and global talent, we deliver better, faster planning and insights that help marketers understand and cater to their customers. From customer journey to lifetime value analysis, we are experts in leveraging a brand’s first-party data to drive marketing optimization and deepen customer relationships.
