Personalized guidance to navigate your business needs From building a robust data infrastructure to implementing machine learning and AI, we can help you make the most of your data. Top challenges AI and machine learning Find out how you can use artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning to streamline process and sift data. Business intelligence and reporting From creation to insights, CLA can help. Using data analytics and interactive visuals, business intelligence can help you turn disparate data into actionable insight. Data infrastructure Empower your data-driven future by building bridges, not silos. We are committed to breaking down data silos, weaving a fabric of connectivity that fosters a trusted data ecosystem. Digital readiness assessment Are you still using technology the same way you did 10+ years ago? Discover how a fresh digital approach can advance your purpose. Lineage and master data management Trustworthy data is a must for modern business. CLA can help you keep important data consistent and accurate across systems and teams. Turn data into actionable insights We understand that every organization faces distinct circumstances and challenges. Our deep industry experience and analytical tools can help you face every situation with a clear strategy for success. Accounting automation Stop wasting time and money on an inefficient process. Reduce up to 80% of manual accounts payable (AP) data entry with automation. Acumatica Help your organization thrive in the digital economy with a cloud ERP system built for rapid-growth companies. Alteryx Build repeatable workflows to easily access and analyze data from multiple sources, perform complex data transformations, and build predictive models without special coding or IT support. Microsoft Get more out of your Microsoft investments. CLA applies deep experience implementing and supporting Microsoft technology — providing customized approaches to meet your specific requirements. Sage 100 When business evolves rapidly, it’s easy to overlook critical details. With the right technology, staying focused can become effortless and success can keep pace with the speed of business. Sage Intacct Get a fully integrated financial management and accounting system in the cloud. Our Sage Intacct-certified consulting team provides customized implementations by industry. Accounting automation Acumatica Alteryx Microsoft Sage 100 Sage Intacct Understanding your industry Agribusiness, food, and beverage Grow your agribusiness, food, and beverage organization by cultivating solid business practices. Learn More Construction Navigate your complex financial, tax, operational, and strategic issues with our dedicated construction team. Learn More Education While your school’s focus is on building a legacy of excellence in education and beyond, we can apply our industry experience to help you navigate today’s operational and financial issues. Learn More Financial services Adapt to industry shifts and prepare for the challenges of the future with a team that understands the ins and outs of the financial services industry. Learn More Government Be confident that you are delivering the transparency and efficiency the public seeks — while navigating legislative changes, funding challenges, compliance, and risk management. Learn More Health care and life sciences We work closely with providers across the entire health care continuum, enabling us to help you with the challenges of today as well as the strategic needs of the future. Learn More Logistics Sustained success requires a long-term plan. We strive to reduce risk, enhance value, and strengthen your impact and legacy. Learn More Manufacturing Enhance value, reduce risk, drive profitability, and protect your legacy. Learn More Nonprofits Power a comprehensive, mission-driven strategy that impacts your organization from top to bottom. Learn More Private equity Realize higher potential in your investments throughout their lifecycles by working with our experienced professionals. Learn More Professional services Like you, we’re a professional services organization. With fresh insights from our team, we can help you improve efficiency and grow your organization at a pace that allows you to meet your goals. Learn More Real estate Grow with confidence during each phase of the real estate investment life cycle. Our real estate professionals draw on deep industry technical knowledge to identify opportunities that can increase property and portfolio value. Learn More Retail, dealerships, and hospitality Sustained success demands a long-term game plan. With years of experience serving retail, dealership, and hospitality businesses, we can help you navigate the challenges of today and strategize for the future. Learn More Technology From startup to succession, our technology professionals know the path other companies have taken and can help you innovate, focus, and grow your enterprise — and position for a successful exit. Learn More Agribusiness, food, and beverage Health care and life sciences Retail, dealerships, and hospitality Agribusiness, food, and beverage Health care and life sciences Retail, dealerships, and hospitality Take their word for it CLA conducted a comprehensive assessment of our operations, processes, and digital needs and provided tested, industry-specific recommendations. We’re now far better equipped to undergo our digital customer service and business growth plans. Steve Linton, President and CEO Mid America Bank Read Customer Story The CLA implementation team is what really sold us. It was much easier to start by talking about our business software issues and then get the ball rolling on financial management solutions. CLA’s responsiveness and ongoing support were invaluable. Dean Pritchett, Chief Financial Officer AGC of California Read Customer Story Installing CLA Accounts Payable AI has saved us significant time and money, and made our AP process much smoother and more accurate. Our AP employees are now able to do higher-level work instead of manual invoice checking and filing. Tommy Black, President and COO Black & Company CLA digital is transforming our data management at Frasier, streamlining reporting and analysis by integrating over a dozen systems into a unified data lakehouse. This upgrade will not only improve efficiency but also provide critical insights for better, faster decision-making. Jeff Puckett, Senior Director of IT Frasier Read Customer Story Digital self-implementation just was absolutely not going to happen for us. CLA made it look easy. I don’t think there was a prayer we could ever get anywhere near the same result trying on our own. Bruce O’Brien, President and CEO Famous Products CLA’s approach to modernizing our finance function and solving data challenges transformed our operations. We’re now a more mature organization with a connected environment, improved data quality, and enhanced reporting capabilities. Susan Heegaard, President Midwestern Higher Education Compact Read Customer Story CLA conducted a comprehensive assessment of our operations, processes, and digital needs and provided tested, industry-specific recommendations. We’re now far better equipped to undergo our digital customer service and business growth plans. Steve Linton, President and CEO Mid America Bank Read Customer Story Success Stories
