Here's an idea to increase your tips. For catering proposals, I include a line item called discretionary gratuity and include a 5-20% tip depending on the level of service (delivery through on-site cooking)and leave it up to the client to tell me if they want to keep, eliminate, increase or decrease it. Now most clients leave it as is. Before, 50% of clients didn't tip. Mind you, your proposal may look less competitive vs. other proposals. What are your thoughts on this approach? Original Post That's a great idea! We started tacking on an automatic 15% for tips: and 6 1/2% MN sales tax on to our contracts. Nobody has batted an eye. Some will give more. Because most people don't hire caterers often, they are not used to tipping. It's not that they are cheap, they just don't know. The 15% really helps. Good Luck! Roger Former Member my belief is that if you need a tip, the add more to the base charge from the start. dont forget what it really is, a gratuity for extremely delightful service. i find it 'cheesy' to have it written in for me even as an option. those people that claim they didnt know , they know! we should not expect, nor desire, nor require, a tip, ever. Former Member I agree, many clients don't know and you have to educate them on tipping for caterers. I also agree it's a little "cheesy" to tack it on. So I try to take the middle road and let them know it's optional and can be adjusted at anytime, even after the event. Based on client feedback and formal surveys, my clients are almost always delighted, yet I received tips only 50% of the time. So I guess I expect, desire and encourage, but do not require a tip. Your leaving "money on the table" otherwise. Former Member I used to hold alot of business meetings for 25 to 30 managers with lunch in the deal for the meeting room. The hotel always added 20% gratuity which I also felt should be my decision for good service. Rarely found the service worth the 20% extra. Usually cold food, not on time, but the room rates were good for the meeting. Once they added the total, put on the restaurant tax, and then added 20% tip....I was paying a 20% tip on the tax also. I hate it when that happens! Revolt, ask the manager if they will give a 20% discount if the service is poor?......TIPS are for good service in my book. Former Member quote: we should not expect, nor desire, nor require, a tip, ever. Now here is a view point from a guy who is not quite there yet, but is working toward a catering business. I have been a server at events before, and more importantly I have been the caterer's customer. I agree to a point. If the event is run soley by the proprietor then a tip is very much appreciated, but not required or asked for. After all one sets a price that suits him/ her to begin with. However, if you hire some servers who dress, behave, and serve appropriately (and these types should be the only ones to work for you.)then I think it is not "cheesy" to ask for and show on the contract a line item for gratuity. After all, if you took your group to a sit down restaurant, you'd automatically pay a tip. The bigger, high scale and hotel restaurants often add it on to the bill whether you like it or not. Some people are just tight. Given the chance, they will make something up to b*!ch about just so they dont have to leave a tip for your help, even if superb service was rendered. Why let them get away with it. If you cant afford the bill, dont sign on the dotted line! On the other hand, if I found out the proprieter was taking a cut of the tips from people he/ she is paying a lousy $5.00- $6.00 an hour to, I'd be highly pi%*ed. Just a consumer's (for the time being) viewpoint. Add Reply Membership Required We're sorry. You must be signed in to continue. Sign In or Register ×
