The News In Brief Golden Goose Sneakers Sold by Permira to Chinese Firm HSG The deal values the company at slightly over $2.9 billion, Bloomberg reported. Golden Goose Sneakers Sold by Permira to Chinese Firm HSG The deal values the company at slightly over $2.9 billion, Bloomberg reported. PR Firm BPCM Names New Leadership Co-founders Vanessa von Bismarck and Carrie Ellen Phillips have appointed chief-of-staff Nancy Cuocci and global managing director Victor de Vita as partners. PR Firm BPCM Names New Leadership Co-founders Vanessa von Bismarck and Carrie Ellen Phillips have appointed chief-of-staff Nancy Cuocci and global managing director Victor de Vita as partners. Pat McGrath Labs Puts Assets Up for Sale The legendary makeup artist’s eponymous brand is undergoing “restructuring and recapitalisation processes” expected to be completed in 2026. Pat McGrath Labs Puts Assets Up for Sale The legendary makeup artist’s eponymous brand is undergoing “restructuring and recapitalisation processes” expected to be completed in 2026. Nike’s China Conundrum Deepens as Turnaround Stagnates In the Chinese market, the athletic brand is facing a sixth straight quarter of sales decline and mounting margin pain despite aggressive efforts to refresh product offerings. Nike’s China Conundrum Deepens as Turnaround Stagnates In the Chinese market, the athletic brand is facing a sixth straight quarter of sales decline and mounting margin pain despite aggressive efforts to refresh product offerings. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Kering to Buy Jewellery Producer Raselli Franco The 20 percent stake will be further expanded to full ownership by 2032, Kering said in a statement. Kering to Buy Jewellery Producer Raselli Franco The 20 percent stake will be further expanded to full ownership by 2032, Kering said in a statement. LVMH Names Laura Burdese CEO of Bulgari Long-time Bulgari CEO Babin will remain chairman of the Roman jeweller and CEO of Bulgari Hotels, and continue to oversee LVMH’s watches unit. LVMH Names Laura Burdese CEO of Bulgari Long-time Bulgari CEO Babin will remain chairman of the Roman jeweller and CEO of Bulgari Hotels, and continue to oversee LVMH’s watches unit. Zara Turns to AI to Generate Fashion Imagery Using Real-Life Models The Inditex-owned brand’s AI experimentation follows Swedish rival H&M, which created AI ⁠clones of models to use in marketing earlier this year. Zara Turns to AI to Generate Fashion Imagery Using Real-Life Models The Inditex-owned brand’s AI experimentation follows Swedish rival H&M, which created AI ⁠clones of models to use in marketing earlier this year. Birkenstock Sales Climb as Shoppers Snap Up Its Sandals, Clogs The company reported higher sales and profit on strong demand for its pricey sandals and clogs, while predicting a slower pace of growth for the year ahead. Birkenstock Sales Climb as Shoppers Snap Up Its Sandals, Clogs The company reported higher sales and profit on strong demand for its pricey sandals and clogs, while predicting a slower pace of growth for the year ahead.
