We’re changing the world, one student at a time. Our Programs in the News High-impact tutoring program seeks to improve Brown County reading proficiency rates At the local level, 115 students within Brown County benefited from Reading Corps services over the past year. These 115 local students received 6,312 tutoring sessions, accounting to over 119,000 minutes of invaluable literacy support. – Go Press Times Reading Corps brings high-impact tutoring to schools across Wisconsin The program uses one-on-one or two-on-one tutors to teach children in kindergarten through third grade to read, using the now-preferred approach known as “science of reading.” – Wisconsin Public Radio Many Wisconsin students struggle with reading. How does one tutoring group help schools? Only 33% of Wisconsin fourth-graders are at or above proficient reading levels. That’s where Reading Corps comes in. Kindergarten and first-grade students who worked with the program saw a year’s worth of improvement in a semester. – Green Bay Press Gazette This Nonprofit Runs the Nation’s 3 Largest Tutoring Programs. Here’s What It’s Learned Tutoring is having quite the moment, for pretty obvious reasons. What’s less clear is whether “high-dosage tutoring” will turn out to be another overhyped fad or something that actually makes a difference. – Rick Hess, Education Week Florida Early Learning Corps Receives $1M Investment “I am really grateful for the opportunity to champion early childhood education in the Legislature and to make sure that we are empowering the best practices that we know exist,” said Senator Calatayud, who carried the proposal throughout the last legislative session. – The Miami Times AmeriCorps delivers large grant to Poughkeepsie AmeriCorps State and National Director Sonali Nijhawan was in Poughkeepsie on Thursday to present a $240,000 American Rescue Plan grant to expand AmeriCorps programs in the City of Poughkeepsie and Dutchess County in partnership with local institutions. – Mid Hudson News World Tutor Day is this week With a reminder of the importance of tutors, Sadie O’Connor, president of Reading Corps and Math Corps talks about the need for tutors in Minnesota and how you can help. – CBS News On the importance of getting kids reading for fun Tips for getting your kids into books from the director of Reading Corps. – CBS News Lawmakers get a tour of a newer tutoring program in Idaho While it hasn’t been around long, it’s already making a difference in the classroom. – KMVT AmeriCorps looking for tutors in the Hattiesburg area AmeriCorps is looking for tutors to assist students in the Hattiesburg Public School System with developing their reading and math skills – WDAM TEACHER VOICE: Through tutoring, I discovered I love teaching middle schoolers Tutoring can jump-start careers for college grads and help address the post-pandemic teacher shortage – The Hechinger Report Reading tutors help prepare early learners for kindergarten Shevrin Jones, executive director of Florida’s Reading Corps, says reading is the one foundation for children that can’t be overlooked – K-12 Dive It’s time to declare an education emergency We must act to reverse a disaster. – StarTribune Media Inquiries: Contact: Suzanne Pagel suzanne.pagel@ampact.us 952-960-4724 AmeriCorps in Action. Finding His Path and His People: A Conversation With MNGOT Member Caleb Caleb comes from a family of educators — but even so, when he signed up to be a Math Corps… STEM Career Fair Promotes New Opportunities for Tutors In partnership with Cummins Inc., Math Corps hosted its first-ever virtual STEM Career Fair on Tuesday, November 4. With over… Finding Purpose in the Classroom: A Conversation with MNGOT Member Tamara When Tamara signed up to be a Reading Corps tutor, she didn’t imagine it would open the door to a…
