Work Out with a Professional Get more from your workout with training programs from our certified personal trainers, wellness staff and life coaches. The Tampa Y wellness staff is ready to support each individual by being accountability partners, creating programs to help you achieve your goals and create and stick to healthy lifestyle habits. Whether you need someone to guide you in a fitness routine, need to improve strength to master daily activities, need an accountability partner or thrive in a competitive environment, the Y has a training program for you. Learn more about our personal training programs at 13 Tampa Y locations. Personal Training Whether you need an accountability partner, new exercises or want to improve overall strength, the Tampa Y has a personal trainer for you. When you work with a personal trainer at the Y, you will: Establish goals that suit your fitness level Workout one-on-one time with a certified trainer Learn fun, challenging exercises Receive an exercise program specific to your needs, health status, and limitations Learn proper exercise techniques, program design, and progression to avoid exercise-related injuries Receive positive encouragement and accountability to keep you committed to your training program Receive an InBody scan for free Small Group Training Work out with a friend or meet new people and accountability partners! Small group training is the best of personal training and group exercise, with fewer people and a certified personal trainer leading a specialized program. The group works toward similar goals focusing on strength, endurance and agility. Benefits of Small Group Training New friends Accountability partners Workout with people with similar goals Can be competitive environment Led by certified personal trainer Cost-effective for semi-personal training Specialized small group training programs focus on a range of wellness goals and concentrations: specific fitness goals (cardio, strength, etc.), an apparatus and athletic training. Small group training is available at all Tampa Y locations. Personal Training Rates Personal Training is sold in single sessions. Personal Training Packages listed below are suggested quantities. To receive the package discount, click the Purchase button, sign in, add sessions to your Cart, which will reflect the final discounted rate. One-on-One Personal Training rates for 60-minute sessions. Package Member Member Non-member* Non-member* 1 $75 - $82 - 3 $215 $72/session $235 $78/session 6 $415 $69/session $455 $76/session 12 $800 $67/session $880 $73/session 16 $1,035 $65/session $1,138 $71/session One-on-One Personal Training rates for 45-minute sessions*. Available for YMCA Members only. Package Member Member/session 1 $60 - 3 $173 $58/session 6 $335 $56/session 12 $645 $54/session 16 $825 $52/session One-on-one Personal Training rates for 30-minute sessions. Available for Tampa Y members only. Package Member Member/session 1 $45 - 3 $130 $43/session 6 $252 $42/session 12 $500 $42/session 16 $660 $41/session Small Group Training Packages Package session quantities vary by location. Each Small Group Training session is typically 60 minutes. Session Packages Member Non-member 4 Sessions $60 $80 6 Sessions $90 $102 8 Sessions $120 $136 12 Sessions $180 $204 16 Sessions $240 $272 Reach out to your center to learn more about Two Person Personal Training! Group Training Schedule Purchase Personal Training Purchase Group Training Meet the Bob Sierra Y Trainers Danielle Cooney, Personal Trainer I am a strong and enthusiastic lifetime fitness advocate. After being diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis in 2004, which initially caused partial paralysis, I was able to get my body back from the disease after conducting an arduous and aggressive months-long physical and occupational therapy program. Since then, I have made fitness and nutrition my passion by taking it to the next level and becoming a Personal Trainer. I am a dedicated fitness professional always striving to help others achieve their personal fitness goals that will ultimately lead to a healthy and rewarding life. Certifications Associates from Austin Peay State University in Applied Science ASHI CPR/AED/First Aid NASM Certified Personal Trainer NASM Fitness Nutrition Specialist NASM Senior Fitness Specialist TRX suspension qualified TRX group qualified Training Specialties Functional Training, TRX Suspension, Corrective Exercise Jodi Frazier Fleeman, Personal Trainer I have experience training a variety of fitness levels, from beginners to triathletes. Whether you are looking to lose weight, tone up, complete your first 5K, or make healthy lifestyle changes, I will give you the workouts, behavioral tools, and motivation to help you become the strongest, fittest, and most athletic version of yourself. My personal fitness mantra is: I will persist until I succeed, and I want that for you as well! Certifications ACSM Certified Personal Trainer CPR/AED/First Aid AFAA Certified Group Exercise Instructor ASHI Certified CPR/AED/Oxygen/First Aid Mad Dogg Certified SPINNING Instructor Les Mills Certified BODYPUMP Instructor Precision Nutrition Certificate in Exercise Nutrition LiveStrong at the YMCA Program Instructor Training Specialties Functional Training, Corrective Exercise, Running, Cycling, Triathlons Holly Hostler, Personal Trainer As a former professional modern dancer, I believe movement is integral to happiness. Fitness should help you experience everyday life to the fullest potential. On an Alaska cruise of over 2500 passengers, my family was three of six passengers that felt fit enough to climb to the top of Laughton Glacier. It is my hope as a trainer to help you discover challenging your body through a combination of strength, cardio, and core work leads to the ability to fully experience all that life has to offer. As a former professional dancer who lived and performed in New York City for six years, I feel passionately about helping my clients find that through movement we can age gracefully and participate fully in life. Certifications CPR/AED/First Aid ACE Personal Trainer Spinning Instructor Pilates Instructor Training Specialties Functional Training, TRX Suspension, Senior Health and Wellness Scott Moseley, Personal Trainer Move better, feel better, look better. I believe that we should always move with a purpose. Whether it is to lose weight, feel better or look good we all have the ability to enhance our own quality of life through fitness. The human body is an incredible machine that should be challenged to strive for progress, not perfection. I know that my journey through life will take me on different paths but one constant that has been, and will always be, fitness. Certifications BS in Exercise Science ACE Personal Trainer TRX Suspension Trainer CPR/AED/First Aid Training Specialties Functional Training, Corrective Exercise, TRX Suspension Clay Otte, Personal Trainer I believe that fitness and health should be a lifestyle. Whether it’s weight loss, building muscle, or toning up, it should be a commitment and part of you all through your life. It’s not just to look good, but to feel good and more confident in yourself. During my 11 years at the YMCA, I’ve seen awesome transformations in people of all age groups. Certifications ACE Certified Personal Trainer CPR/AED/First Aid LiveStrong Coach Training Specialties All age groups, focus on senior health and wellness Bruce Ayers There are two things that determine the caliber of life one will live; Quality of life and Quantity of life, and it just so happens training out bodies improves both. Quality of life is how our physical abilities create more opportunities and ways to engage with the world, whether that be playing with our grandkids, rock climbing, ski trips, hiking or walking around amusement park, we need a certain level of fitness to accomplish these things. Then our quantity of life is how much time we actually get on this earth, which is enhanced by lowering our body fat and our resting heart rate. My mission is to help as many people as possible get the most out of their life by improving their strength, endurance, Flexibility and Nutrition to the highest levels possible. Certifications ISSA Certified Personal Trainer CPR/AED Certified Black Belt Tae Kwon Do Specialties Functional Strength Training Flexibility/Mobility Training Athletic Training Martial Arts Training Kaylee Meyers As a former collegiate athlete, fitness has always been a huge part of my life, and I’ve been incredibly blessed to build my career around it. I received a bachelor’s degree in Exercise Science with the intent of primarily training athletes, but quickly fell in love with working with a variety of clientele. From novice individuals to athletic performance to pre/postnatal training, I’ve had the pleasure of working with many people at various stages of life. I believe that with a desire for change and some educational guidance, everyone is capable of becoming a better version of themselves. Certifications BS Sports Medicine - Exercise Science NASM Personal Trainer ISSA Nutrition Coach CPR/AED/First Aid Specialties Strength and Conditioning (all ages) Athletic Performance Corrective Exercise Injury Prevention Pre/Postnatal Nutrition Coaching MaryAnn Cook I have a BS in Computer Science from St. John's University and an MBA from Baruch College, both in NYC. I moved to Tampa 30 years ago. I have been working out for over 30 years. Certifications NASM Certified Personal Trainer CPR/AEO Certified Specialties Seniors New to fitness members Matt Ortiz I believe that fitness is about more than just appearance, it’s about building strength, confidence, and resilience that carry into every part of life. With experience in personal training, outpatient physical therapy, and working alongside pediatric physical therapy teams, I enjoy helping people of all backgrounds move and feel better. My background in exercise science and exposure to advanced strength and conditioning methods, including work with elite performance specialists, have shaped my approach to training. I aim to create an encouraging environment where progress is the priority, and every client feels supported on their journey. Certifications & Education NASM Certified Personal Trainer BS in Exercise Science (in progress) Training Specialties Functional Training Corrective Exercise Strength and Conditioning Caleb Cummings Hello! I’m Caleb Cummings, a certified personal trainer at the Bob Sierra YMCA. I specialize in helping people of all ages—including youth, older adults and individuals with special needs—build confidence through safe, effective and sustainable workouts. Whether it’s improving balance, increasing strength, preventing injuries or achieving performance goals, I make fitness approachable and adaptable for every stage of life. I am NASM Certified and currently continuing my education with advanced coursework. I am also CPR/AED Certified. My background as an athlete, combined with years of strength and powerlifting training, has given me a solid foundation in performance and conditioning that I adapt to each client’s unique needs. My mission is to make every session focused, motivating, and impactful so clients leave feeling better, stronger and more capable. Certifications NASM Certified Personal Trainer CPR/AED Certified Specialties Fitness for all ages (youth, adults, older adults) Athletic performance Strength and conditioning Fat loss and body composition Adaptive fitness for individuals with disabilities Injury prevention Purchase Group and Personal Training Meet the Campo Y Trainers Brittany Bryant As a personal trainer I have found my place in this world. I enjoy being that accountability, coach, and friend for each of my clients. I treat everyone as an individual because there isn’t a “one size fits all” approach to living a healthy lifestyle. I believe that one deviation off the path does not mean all is lost and every small step to the top is a gain in the right direction. I have successfully trained a wide variety of clients all differing in fitness levels, age, medical conditions and goals. No matter where you are starting, I will be with you at the finish line. Certifications American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) CPR/AED and First Aid LIVESTRONG at the YMCA Training Specialties Functional lifting, endurance-based cardio, programming for emotional well-being and longevity Chase Houston As a young man, I was very much into sports and being in good physical shape. Unfortunately, like most, once high school was over, work and life started to consume everything and I was not able to maintain. With hard work, consistency, training, and dieting over the last five years I have made a complete transformation. Nutrition and health are a huge part of my life now. I love personal training and everything about it and I can’t wait to work with each and every one of you to achieve our goals together one day at a time. Let’s get up and move! Certifications ISSA Certified Personal Trainer, CPR & First Aid Training Specialties Strength training, body building, physical therapy, mobility work Glenn Morris I love helping others reach their goals in a simple and efficient way. As a personal trainer, I believe in staying up to date on the latest fitness and nutrition information in order to better serve the people that I train. I will create a plan for you that addresses your goals whether it’s losing weight, building muscle or just overall well-being. I don’t know of a better way to improve your present and future health than to exercise. Certifications ISSA Certified Personal Trainer ISSA Specialist in Sports Nutrition ISSA Specialist in Strength and Conditioning LIVESTRONG at the YMCA Training Specialties Strength training, bodybuilding, self-defense training, youth and young adults Kelly Surrency I have been an active person my entire life, from youth sports, to college athletes and beyond. I’ve always had a passion for sports, particularly volleyball, and coached collegiately at various institutions across the country for nine years after graduation. When it was time for a career change, I knew staying in the fitness industry was the answer. As a mother of two, I realize more than ever how valuable time is, and I believe in catering fitness programs to meet every individual's needs. That is why I chose the YMCA. There are so many resources available to members and the family atmosphere makes the Y the perfect place to train clients and help them meet their goals. Certifications M.A. in Physical Education NASM Personal Trainer NASM Fitness Nutrition Specialist Coaching Accreditation Program, Level 1/IMPACT certified/USA Volleyball A1 Coach TRX Qualified CPR/First Aid Training Specialties TRX, nutrition, stretching/Theragun, active older adults Ajee Wells Having played sports my whole life helped me develop my love for fitness, but it wasn't until I saw how the lifestyles of many impacted their lives that I decided to combined both Health and Fitness together to bring about awareness. With my education and experience I figured I could help people who felt limited by their genetic factors teaching that with physical activities and nutrition they can achieve optimal health. I want to help my clients feel better about their health and appearance. Certifications B.S. in Sports Medicine NSCA Certified Personal Trainer Strength and Conditioning Consultant Sports Nutrition and Program Design CPR/First Aid Training Specialties Sports conditioning and technique, special populations, corrective rehab. Mike Wylie Certifications: NASM Certified Personal Trainer NASM Corrective Exercise Specialist CPR/AED and First Aid Training Specialties: Corrective Exercise Functional Training Laura Miller Education/ Certifications: Med Kinesiology and Health, University of Texas at Tyler ACSM Certified Personal Trainer TRX Suspension Training Certified CPR/AED and First Aid Specialties: Active Older Adults TRX John Spruill I like to push my clients so they can see growth both physically and mentally by completing tasks they previously thought they wouldn’t be able to. I understand people need to step outside of their comfort zones sometimes to get the most out of themselves. Specialties: Strength and Flexibility Sports Conditioning Strength Training Certifications: Action Fitness Certified Personal Trainer CPR & First Aid Casey Maloney I’m 21 years old and originally got into fitness through my love of baseball. Over time, and training for the game that I love it turned into a true passion for health, strength, and helping others reach their own goals, I focus on a variety of weight loss, corrective exercises, sport-specific training, and strength training! I believe everybody is uniquely different, meaning all training plans should be personalized to your unique needs. Most importantly discipline always beats motivation, stay consistent! Certifications: NASM Certified Personal Trainer CPR/AED and First Aid Specialties: Weight Loss Corrective Exercises Sport– Specific Training Ken Huertas I believe that fitness is a lifelong endeavor that anyone can improve their life through it. My career was in law enforcement with many years spent on a SWAT team. I served as trainer in various disciplines including defensive tactics and as a fitness advisor. Throughout my life I have strived to maintain fitness through weight training, cardio, and martial arts including competing in judo throughout my 40's. Now in my 60's I hope to aid others in reaching their fitness goals no matter their age or when they began their journey. Education/ Certifications: ACE Certified Personal Trainer CPR/AED and First Aid Specialties: Senior Wellness Functional Fitness Self Defense Purchase Group Training Purchase Personal Training Meet the Central City Trainers Daniel Coleman I'm a NASM certified Personal Trainer with a passion for not only fitness, but also helping clients build lasting habits for health & well-being. I believe that this starts with taking care of the body and the soul, and fitness can strengthen both. The programs I design are personalized, with a mix of strength, functional & high intensity training to make each and every workout beneficial to achieving your fitness goals. No matter if you're a beginner or want to take your fitness to the next level, I'm here to aid, guide and push you to reach and surpass your goals. Certifications NASM Certified Personal Trainer CPR/First Aid Pro Certified Zo Wims My fitness philosophy is built on discipline, strength, and consistency. I believe fitness is mind, body, and spirit working together. Movement heals, food is fuel, and longevity is the real goal. I train to be strong for life, not just for today, and I lead by living the lifestyle I coach. Training Specialties Improving General Fitness Muscle and Strength Gain Improving Flexibility Nutrition Functional and Core Training Endurance Training Weight Loss Partner & Group Training Certifications ISSA Certified Personal Trainer ISSA Strength & Conditioning Certification CPR/First Aid Pro Certified Mila Harvey “Results are non-negotiable.” Training Specilties Glute Building Body Composition HIIT Corrective Exercise Accountability Lifestyle & Behavior Change Certifications NASM Certified Personal Trainer Certified Strength & Conditioning Instructor Corrective Exercise Specialist CPR/First Aid Pro Certified Tre Harris Welcome to the YMCA! My name is Tre, I believe staying in shape and hitting personal fitness goals is a very important aspect in one’s life. I am a believer, so taking care of the mind, body, and spirit is key to peace and health. Honoring the body by taking great care of your temple comes great reward not only from physical results, but rewards from above beyond the physical. It’s amazing reaching new heights with someone who cares about your progress and wants to be there and help you through your fitness journey! There is nothing better to me than seeing people happy with their fitness results, allow me to watch and help you achieve yours! Certifications ISSA Certified Personal Trainer CPR/First Aid Pro Certified Kimberly David Fitness is more than just exercise, it’s a journey toward a healthier, more vibrant life and the building of stronger, more connected communities. As a trainer, I will inspire, motivate, and empower you every step of the way. My approach combines strength, functional movement, and endurance, while prioritizing prevention, balance, and daily practices that support long-term vitality. Together, we’ll design a program that goes beyond workouts, cultivating habits that nurture your mind, body, and spirit, and empowering you to reach your goals and embrace life to its fullest. Certifications Master of Public Health - Leadership ACSM Certified Personal Trainer BI Human Movement Specialists ACE Strength & Conditioning Coach ACE Group Fitness Instructor CPR/First Aid Pro Certified Mike Muniz It’s never too early or late to take the first steps toward better quality of life. Together we can create and implement a plan to ensure we excel beyond your goals through the appropriate combination of training styles, specifically set to fit your needs. Trainer Specialties HIIT, Sport Specific Functional Training, Corrective Exercise Lifestyle & Behavioral Changes Certifications University of Cincinnati - BS Exercise Science InBody Certified - Experience Manager NCSF Certified Personal Trainer ACE Strength & Conditioning Coach ACE Group Fitness Instructor SilverSneakers Certified - Circuit, Classic, & Yoga YUSA YWeight Coach, Livestrong at the YMCA Cancer Survivor Coach, Parkinson’s Cycling Coach CPR/First Aid Certified Purchase Group Training Purchase Personal Training Meet the Dade City & East Pasco Y Trainers Brianna Cimino Over the last three years of Brianna’s fitness journey, physical fitness has brought her a sense of mental ease. She has a drive each and everyday to become better than she was yesterday and strives to help others do the same. Brianna specializes in training our Active Older Adult population with a focus on helping them become more active, energized, and empowered to sustain healthy independent lives. “Do something today that your future self will thank you for.” Certifications ACE Certified Personal Trainer Training Specialties Functional Training, Focus on Active Older Adults; Overall Fitness Ahkil McGill Fitness has always been a pivotal part of my life. Maintaining the physical shape to perform in athletics and my passion for helping others drove me into this field. Having an opportunity to design a program to assist others in reaching their own specific personal health and fitness goals is something near and dear to my heart. Nothing can compare to the satisfaction of building a strong relationship with my clients and watching them get stronger, healthier, and more confident as they reach their goals. This is why I do what I do! Certifications Bachelors Degree in Health Science Kasey Stroede Fitness Philosophy: Train for life! Fitness is more than looking good, its about feeling good on the inside, too. Stay active! Stay strong! “Push yourself because no one else is going to do it for you.” Certifications ISSA Certified Personal Trainer TRX Certified Instructor LIVESTRONG Certified Instructor Enhance Fitness Certified Instructor Training Specialties Functional training, focus on Active Older Adults, strength and mobility training Purchase Group Training Purchase Personal Training Meet the Downtown Y Trainers Ashleigh Anderson I'm Coach Ashleigh, and I love lifting! My training style is that of a Power-Builder. I enjoy heavy lifts, but I like switching it up with intense HIIT-style training every once in a while. I also have a passion for recovery and mobility, so that you can stay injury-free. Let's get a session together! Certifications A.C.T.I.O.N Certified Specialities: Strength Training Vegetarian Nutrition Athletic Recovery Jarrett Dutton Hello! My name is Jarrett Dutton and I am a doctoral physical therapy student, certified strength and conditioning specialist, and former collegiate athlete. I love lifting weights, running, and nutrition Specialities: Strength Training Hyperthrophy Sports Performance Overall Wellness Mila Harvey As someone who’s dealt with being overweight for most of my life, I understand firsthand how tough it can be to make the lifestyle changes needed to get in shape. After losing over 50 pounds, I’ve been through the ups and downs of the weight loss journey. I now dedicate my career to helping my clients tackle the mental hurdles around diet and exercise so they can achieve lasting results. If you're ready to level up your fitness, let’s book a session together! Purchase Group Training Purchase Personal Training Meet the New Tampa Y Trainers Shelie Bollenbach, Health Coach I have over 20 years of personal training experience, working with a diverse range of functional ability, health & wellness goals and training options. Throughout my time as a trainer, I have expanded my ability to offer my clients a holistic approach to health & wellness by obtaining the ACE Health Coach certification, and Specialist Certification in Orthopedic Exercise. Fitness has many definitions, based on individual goals and ability. It is my joy to help you determine and achieve your fitness goals in a safe and effective, yet challenging program. Certifications ACE-Certified Personal Trainer ACE Health Coach ACE Group Exercise Instructor ACE Orthopedic Exercise Specialist YOGAFIT Instructor Hobbies I love dragons and elephants! You can find them all over my house, office, clothes & car! I'm also a big kinesiology nerd - how the human body is designed for movement is so cool! Debbie Keegan, Master Life Coach Whether it is a goal that you are aiming for, a new habit you want to instill, or something you need to let go of – Debbie is the one you want. She is a master at using various tools and techniques that can help you reframe your thoughts, modify your behavior, and live a life you never thought possible. With three certifications under her belt, Debbie can help you sort through whatever’s holding you back and transform your life for the better. Debbie is known for her exceptional communication skills that allow her to connect with clients on a deeper level, producing accelerated results. Her areas of expertise include parenting coaching, weight loss coaching, marriage coaching, blended families coaching, and motivational speaking. Debbie also teaches seminars. She is hardworking, driven, and extremely passionate about what she does. She believes in empowering and inspiring the people she works with. Having spent 10 years as a coach and a mentor, Debbie has helped hundreds of people overcome their struggles and become the best version of themselves. Debbie enjoys reading and tries to do something that pushes her out of her comfort zone every day. A big believer in practicing what you preach, Debbie is a rare life coach who is completely authentic in her approach. She lives her life in a way that reflects who she is, what she is about, and what she stands for. Certifications Master Life Coach Hobbies/Fun Facts Debbie also volunteers weekly at A Woman’s Place, an organization that conducts free pregnancy tests and sonograms and promotes women’s health. She is a mother of four and loves spending her free time with her family, in particular, her grandchildren. Stephan Leite I started lifting weights when I was 13 years old, and it has been a hobby and habit I have carried into my adult life. When I had a year left in the Army, I decided to earn my Certified Personal Trainer credential from NASM. I currently do individual and small group training; I hope to teach and train people the fundamentals while training with weights and much more. Certifications NASM – Certified Personal Trainer Fun Facts In the Army, I served as a 35G (Imagery analyst), and upon my transition, I earned an Army Commendation Medal (ARCOM). I also have an old Chihuahua and a cat named Potato. Stefanie Rey, Health Coach I have been a certified health and wellness specialist for over a decade, with a bachelor degree in biological health science and several specialty certifications, including a medical exercise specialist and a health coaching certification. I am passionate about a non-medical, holistic approach to a healthy spirit, mind, and body to achieve optimum health. I create programs that keep your goals at the core. Achieving mile markers in your journey will empower you to have more confidence, and feel better, be stronger, be you. I am so glad to be part of that journey. Certifications BS Biological Health Science ACE Medical Exercise Specialist ACE Health Coach ACE Certified Personal Trainer ACE Orthopedic Exercise ACE Group Exercise Instructor Hobbies I grew up on a farm in Germany, I ride a motorcycle, and I am training for the Ironman 2021. Erin Tate I have always been passionate about sports. My interest in fitness was due to diabetes/hypertension, obesity and food addiction prevalent in my family. I also believe that exercise is nature’s best anti-depressant. My journey began first with being that cardio “bunny,” to becoming certified in Les Mills BodyPump, to stepping on stage and competing in fitness shows, while getting my personal training certification with NASM. I’ve been in this ever-changing fitness world over 10 years and continue to want to better myself through knowledge and education. Mostly recently, I obtained a certification specializing in “Behavioral Change.” We all struggle to get to the gym or make a workout, I’m here to help you understand it takes: behavior change (cognitive), nutrition and fitness to maintain and create a long lasting lifestyle change. Let me coach and train you, evolve you into the best version of YOU! It’s about progress, not perfection. Certifications NASM Certified Personal Trainer NASM Behavior Change Specialist NASM Group Personal Trainer Specialist LES MILLS Instructor Fun Fact: I was an inspiration for a (fictional) board game character. Emily Watson Fitness has been a part of my life for almost 20 years. Because I saw the results and benefited so much, both physically mentally, from exercising and learning how to take care of myself I decided to get a certification so that I could teach others. I am always learning and trying to stay with the latest exercise and fitness. I enjoy one-on-one training as well as small group training and boot camp classes. I believe it’s never too late to get into fitness or to start your journey again after a break. I truly enjoy training people, teaching others and helping them on their journey to wellness and being their personal best! Certifications ACE-Certified Personal Trainer ACE Group Exercise Instructor Schwinn Cycle Instructor Aquafitness Instructor Specialist in Youth Fitness Hobbies I'm from Tennessee, I love The Beatles, I've run the Disney race for 10 years straight and love to ride my bike. I love daises, so much that I have a tattoo of one! Bill Pauline It is my honor and passion to be on the frontline of the battle against these debilitating conditions by assisting individuals in improving their fitness for life-long health. We will accomplish this through setting realistic, attainable goals, developing an individualized program of fitness based on current best practices, and through a caring support system that includes the provision of evidence-based information, accountability, and positive encouragement/feedback. I look forward to working with you on your road to wellness. I have competed and coached competitive baseball, softball, soccer and volleyball throughout my years. I also hold a Florida Class E soccer coaching license. Certifications NASM Certified Personal Trainer NASM Certified Nutrition Coach NASM Weight Loss Specialist NASM Senior Fitness Specialist Specialties Weight loss, senior fitness, strength & conditioning, youth sports Valerie Wolfe I was inspired to become a personal trainer while working in childcare at the Y in 2012. Other moms would frequently ask me for fitness advice and I wanted to build a career on teaching people everything I had worked so hard to learn myself in regards to health & fitness. I became certified through ACSM and began training in October 2013. Since then, I have become very passionate about helping people develop their strength and stamina through weightlifting and obstacle course races. I do not believe in excuses. I will train anyone who has the desire to overcome their weaknesses and test their limits. I've worked with elderly, injured, overweight and otherwise challenged individuals and I fully believe that your mind is the main thing that truly gets stronger on this journey. Seeing my clients learn to trust their bodies and become mentally empowered is the greatest reward of being a personal trainer! Certifications ACSM Certified Personal Trainer Hobbies/Fun Facts I grew up on a tomato farm. I'm learning Spanish. I hold all the RAW United Powerlifting records for the 132lb Masters class. Purchase Group Training Purchase Personal Training Meet the North Brandon Y Trainers Cagan Richardson Fitness Philosophy: Everyone is unique and the needs of each personal will vary. Have fun and take one day at a time! Fun fact: Cagan competed and won weightlifting meets in high school and college and played college football. Certifications: NASM Certification CPR/AED/First Aid and Pediatric Certification Training Specialties Strength and power training, conditioning Kelly Surrency I have been an active person my entire life, from youth sports, to college athlete and beyond. I’ve always had a passion for sports, particularly volleyball, and coached collegiately at various institutions across the country for nine years after graduation. When it was time for a career change, I knew staying in the fitness industry was the answer. As a mother of two, I realize more than ever how valuable time is, and I believe in catering fitness programs to meet every individual's needs. That is why I chose the YMCA. There are so many resources available to members and the family atmosphere makes the Y the perfect place to train clients and help them meet their goals. Certifications M.A. in Physical Education NASM Personal Trainer NASM Fitness Nutrition Specialist Coaching Accreditation Program, Level 1/IMPACT certified/USA Volleyball A1 Coach TRX Qualified CPR/First Aid Specialties TRX, nutrition, stretching/Theragun, active older adults Purchase Group Training Purchase Personal Training Meet the Northwest & West Park Village Trainers Wendela Jackson I have always enjoyed fitness and the outdoors and wanted to follow my passion. In 2015, I became a NASM Certified Personal Trainer and shortly thereafter I was introduced to Suspension Training! Once I tried it I fell in love with it and became certified. The results are amazing and my core has never been stronger. As I continue to reap the benefits of better health and fitness I want to give back by inspiring others to improve their lifestyle so they too can benefit! As we age it becomes even more important to move more and eat right. Once the mind, body and spirit dance in harmony, then life can be embraced to its fullest. I am here to help you reach your goals and I’m ready when you are! Certifications NASM Certified Personal Trainer NASM Corrective Exercise Specialist (CES) TRX Instructor Precision Nutrition Level 1 Certified Basic First Aid / CPR / AED Mary Anne Kirsch I have been a certified trainer since 1999, but I became more committed to my fitness career when we moved to Tampa in 2009, and I have been training with the YMCA ever since. I work with people of all ages, but I especially love helping older adults stay strong, healthy and active. My other passion is working with cancer survivors in our LiveSTRONG program. I like to include weight training, functional training, flexibility and balance into my fitness programs. Certifications ACE certified Personal Trainer ACE certified Group Fitness Instructor TRX certified trainer Silver Sneakers instructor Les Mills BodyPump Certified Instructor Certified LIVESTRONG Coach ASHI certified CPR, First Aid and AED BS in Public Relations from FSU Hobbies I am a mom of two teenagers and a retired Navy spouse. I have been with the YMCA for 16 years. When I'm not exercising, I love watching sports, reading and relaxing on the beach. Melinda Lewis I have been with the YMCA as a group fitness instructor for almost 20 years. Exercise has always been a part of my life, beginning with competitive swimming and transitioning to running and a variety of other exercise. I love how great I feel mentally and physically after being active and enjoy helping others incorporate exercise into their lives. I also love how the YMCA is a judgement-free zone and members are like family. I am passionate about working with members of all fitness levels in helping them reach their goals. Certifications B.S. Food and Nutrition, emphasis in Exercise Physiology ACE Personal Trainer AFFA Group Fitness Instructor Mad Dogg Spinning Instructor ASHI AED/CPR ASHI First Aid Hobbies I love to read. I love anything to do with mountains (being from Colorado). I have 3 girls. My favorite color is blue. I love the combo of mint/dark chocolate. Tyreek Noble I have been a personal trainer for 10 years with the YMCA. I started out as a Wellness Coach and was passionate about finding ways for people to meet their goals. That is what inspired me to become a personal trainer. I have been working out and interested in fitness my whole life. I enjoy football, basketball, and boxing. I have found a way to incorporate this in to my professional life by introducing sports conditioning into my workout routines. I specialize in Athletic Conditioning, getting my clients to reach their full potential on and off the field, court or ring. Certifications AFAA Personal Training Certification CPR/AED/First Aid YMCA Foundations for Group Exercise Hobbies Playing football, basketball, and spending time with family. Kay-Annie Reid Though a native of the sunny island of Jamaica, Kay-Annie has lived in the Cayman Islands and Bermuda prior to planting roots in the USA. Her love of sports and fitness began at age three, with her earliest memory being of sneaking away to participate in a community sporting event. From there her teenage years found her participating in numerous track and field events at both the local and national level. It wasn't until her adult years that Kay-Annie participated in her first long distance race which was succeeded by longer distances, ranging from obstacle courses to 10Ks and a half marathon. In 2013, Kay-Annie took her love of fitness to another level, and her most challenging to date when she participated as a Figure Competitor in three bodybuilding competitions locally and internationally within the span of eight months of which she captured an overseas 1st and 4th place in Bermuda, and two NPC amateur 1st and 3rd place trophies in Florida. It was at that moment she decided to make a career change and became a fitness professional. Kay-Annie is highly motivated to assist others to reach their wellness goals by educating and empowering them to use exercise as a base for enriching their lives regardless of age and ability. Certifications NASM Corrective Exercise Specialist NFPT Personal Trainer AFFA Certified Group Fitness Instructor LIVESTRONG Coach TRX Coach Hobbies She loves obstacle course races, chocolate and dogs Purchase Group Training Purchase Personal Training Meet the Plant City Y Trainers Cathy Harris I love meeting new people and discussing their needs, goals, where to start, what motivates them and what keeps them moving forward. Exercise is about achieving an optimal level of health. Let's take the first step together and improve your overall quality of life. Certifications AFAA Personal Trainer AFAA Group Exercise Instructor Silver Sneakers Certified Instructor Livestrong Trainer Training Specialties Cancer Exercise Specialist Post Injury Rehab Stroke Recovery Active Older Adult Favorite Quote: "Never underestimate the power of exercise." Abby Reynolds The gym is a place for everyone. Foster a welcoming environment to help build consistence, confidence, and community. It is never too late to set yourself up for a lifetime full of movement and mobility. Show up for yourself! Certifications Certified Personal Trainer - NASM Behavior Change Specialist - NASM Training Specialties Youth Resistance Training Youth Early Sports Nutrition Favorite Quotes: “Be everyone’s hype girl” & “Progress over perfection” Patrick O'Reilly Losing weight is difficult but living with excessive weight is extremely difficult. I’ve dedicated my life to helping people achieve their fitness goals. Self discipline is the cornerstone of success. Certifications Certified Personal Trainer - NASM Certified Nutrition Coach - NASM Certified Group Fitness Instructor - AFAA Silver Sneakers Certified Instructor Enhance Fitness Certified Instructor Training Specialties Weight Loss Functional Strength Training Balance Core Endurance Active Older Adults Favorite Quote: “Fitness is a journey, not a destination.” David Linton, CSCS I believe that everybody is an athlete at heart, and thus, we should all strive to train like one. It is important to be comfortable with being uncomfortable, because only then, will we reach our goals that we set for ourselves. One quote that I (think) I coined in the fitness industry is “form is function”. I meet all of my clients where they are and guide them on the path to improved performance via safe, yet challenging workouts! Certifications Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist - NSCA Performance Enhancement Specialist - NASM Training Specialties Strength, Power, and Speed Development Mobility Vertical Jump Weight Loss Favorite Quote: “If you fail to prepare, prepare to fail.” Ryan Coleman I believe fitness is about building a healthier, more resilient life. My approach blends structured training with practical lifestyle strategies to improve strength, endurance, mobility, and overall well-being. Whether you’re training for sport, recovering from setbacks, or simply seeking better energy and health in daily life, I can help you achieve sustainable results. Certifications Certified Exercise Physiologist - ACSM Training Specialties Evidence-Based Exercise Prescription Body Composition Change Sports Performance Optimization Chronic Disease / Injury Prevention Purchase Group Training Purchase Personal Training Meet the South Tampa Y Trainers Nancy Belli I help adults to become more mobile, better balanced and more Functional. My ability to break down movements into manageable pieces adds to client success and progress. I meet clients where they are and teach them what they need to do to move easier and with more confidence. Certifications MA in Applied Physiology - Columbia University BS in Physical Education and Athletic Training - SUNY Cortland ACSM certified Exercise Physiologist ACSM/NCHPAD Certified Inclusive Fitness Trainer ACSM/Exercise is Medicine Specialist–Level 2 ACE Certified Personal Trainer & Master Instructor Trainer Certified Group and Personal Training for Older Adults - UGA YMCA Certified: LiveStrong Certified Coach, Enhance Fitness Instructor, Diabetes Prevention Program Lifestyle Coach, Healthy Heart Ambassador, YUSA Weight Loss Coachh Certified Group Exercise Water Instructor –SCW American Red Cross Certified—Basic Life Support ASHI Certified - First Aid, & Emergency O2 Healthy Steps for Older Adults Certified Instructor and Master Trainer Fun Facts Broadway & musical movie enthusiast Worked & played in NYC for 30 years Jen Branton I help my clients with their transformation by programming and keeping them consistent and accountable. Transformation is not a quick fix- I help clients achieve their goals by helping them to realize that wellness is a life long process. Consistency is key. I help mothers with pelvic floor and core weaknesses by programming wellness programs so that they can become stronger & therefore more confident in themselves. I also enjoy working with clients who are interested in HIlT, as well as improving balance and mobility. Certifications NASM Certified Personal Trainer TRX Certified Suspension Training Instructor NASM Certified Personal Trainer Development Program Graduate Basic Life Support, ASHI Basic First Aid, ASHI The Florida State University–Juris Doctor The Florida State University–BS Finance Fun Facts Hiked the Narrows in Utah Salmon fishing in Alaska Goal is to run a marathon Alan Dubois Through education, instruction, keeping the workouts interesting and following up to make sure they are staying on track with their goals. I like to get a good understanding of each clients specific goals and tailor the workout to these goals. Certifications ACSM Certified Exercise Physiologist NASM Certified Corrective Exercise Specialist Associates of Science, Physical Therapy Assistant Program, Morton College LIVESTRONG Certified Coach Enhance®Fitness Instructor TRX Certified Spinning, BodyPump, CXWORX, BodyStep and GRIT Certified Instructor Fun Fact: I have traveled to over a dozen countries just to ride roller coasters! Nikki Gudgeon I ask my client a lot of questions about their wellness journey, what their wellness goals are and how I can help them achieve those goals. My unique solution for helping my clients solve their problems is...I LISTEN!!! My vision is always to help my clients achieve and conquer the goals they have set for themselves. Certifications: ACSM Certified Personal Trainer Small Group Training Coach ACE Certified Group Fitness Instructor Schwinn Cycle Instructor TRX Suspension Trainer Coach TRX Rip Trainer Coach American Red Cross CPR/AED/First Aid. Training Specialities: Strength training, Circuit training, HIIT, SIT and Balance exercises. 3 Fun Facts About Nikki I danced with John Travolta I've ran three marathons I love to dance Camilla Jordan I enjoy helping older adults who find themselves not being able to do what they used to do and assisting them in finding solutions to reach their goals with safe training focusing on core strength, balance and improving posture. Fun Facts Worked as a longshoreman in Alaska Fished a 130lbs Halibut Ran Disney's 25th Anniversary Marathon Joanne Levin I help women change their attitude and relationship about exercising by providing them with the knowledge they need to achieve their goals and get them excited about fitness. Strength training is so important as we age and I would love to show you how to get stronger. Your glass is full, let's see what’s in it! Super excited to start working with you… Welcome to the beginning of the rest of your life! Certifications ACE Certified Personal Trainer American Red Cross - CPR/AED/First Aid LIVESTRONG Certified Coach BA in Psychology - CSUN Fun Facts I have two sons at FSU! I lived in Southern California for 50 years! I love to bake because there is always someone who will enjoy it. Tony Lodato Losing weight and working through back, neck, and shoulder injuries have all been part of my fitness journey. A journey I am still on. Working around those injuries and having lost over 50 lbs. inspired me to become a personal trainer. Helping others obtain their fitness goals, whatever they may be, is my driving force as a trainer. Working together we will achieve your goals. “Don’t limit your challenges. Challenge your limits.” Certifications ACE Certified Personal Trainer ASHI First Aid/CPR/AED Certified Graduated from National Personal Training Institute Training Specialties Weight loss, circuit, strength and conditioning, HIIT Fun Facts Born and raised here in Tampa Mental Health Advocate Huge Transformers, Star Wars, Sci-FI geek Scott Moseley Move better, feel better, look better. I believe that we should always move with a purpose. Whether it is to lose weight, feel better or look good we all have the ability to enhance our own quality of life through fitness. The human body is an incredible machine that should be challenged to strive for progress not perfection. I know that my journey through life will take me on different paths but one constant that has been and will always be is fitness. Certifications BS in Exercise Science ACE Certified Personal Trainer TRX Suspension Trainer Precision Nutrition Level 1 CPR/AED/First Aid certified, ASHI Emily Watson No matter your age or limits, you can always improve your fitness level and become stronger and healthier. I can teach you correct form and the right exercises to do to feel confident in the gym. I enjoy helping my experienced clients reach new goals and I also enjoy teaching my new clients the importance of lifting and living a healthier lifestyle. Whatever your goals are, I'm confident that I can help you reach them! Certifications ACE Certified Personal Trainer Group exercise instructor Certified Schwinn cycle instructor Certified Aqua fitness instructor ACE Youth Fitness specialization Cert. Livestrong coach Red Cross CPR Certification Bachelor's degree in Elementary Education from MTSU Fun Facts I'm married, have two adult kids and one dog I was born and raised in Nashville, Tennessee! Kentucky basketball fan. Go Big Blue! I love to go kayaking and paddleboarding. Currently taking golf lessons. LPGA here I come! I ran one 5K every single month in 2024! I love cookies! Jennifer Morse Jennifer is a passionate certified personal trainer and group fitness instructor. She believes everyone’s fitness and health journey will look different and no one solution fits all. She takes an evidence-based approach to her coaching and believes that to truly be your best, you must be fostered with positivity. She is committed to helping her clients reach their goals as well as providing them with the tools necessary to be successful beyond the coach-client relationship. Certifications MA in Forensic Psychology BS in Psychology National Academy of Sports Medicine Certified Personal Trainer CrossFit Level 1 TRX Suspension Training American Red Cross Certified - Basic Life Support Fun Facts 22 year Naval Intelligence Officer Veteran Mother of 3 girls Former NPC Bikini Competitor and National Qualifier Cleveland, Ohio native Faith Kately I specialize in strength and mobility training from the general population to athletes, as well as weight management. I create workout programs catered to each client's needs, meeting them where they are at to help them succeed. Certifications B.S in Nutrition & Kinesiology as a Health Fitness Specialist at East Carolina University ACE Certified Personal Trainer ACE Certified Group Fitness Instructor ACE Fitness Nutrition Specialist ACE-Approved Continuing Education Provider & Presenter American Red Cross- BLS certified 250-hour Registered Yoga Instructor with Yoga Alliance Certified Yin Yoga instructor Certified Restorative Yoga Instructor Certified Chair Yoga Instructor Certified Meditation Specialist Certified Ayurvedic Medicine Specialist Nutrition Coach PN1 Fun Facts I love the beach & being outside My goal is to run a marathon I was a softball pitcher Trista Clements My passion is sharing my love of health and well-being. Staying active is meant to be fun. My training philosophy is to help my clients find enjoyable ways to move their bodies, stimulate their minds, feel fantastic, accomplish their personal goals and experience their best life possible. Certifications Certified Personal Trainer, ACE 2014 Certified Life Coach, International Coaching Federation 2006 Indoor Cycling Certification 2008 Master Instructor Indoor Cycling 2013 Certified Advanced Aqua Instructor, Fittour2023 CPR/First Aid/AED Certified ACE Certified: Senior Fitness Specialist Brain Health Specialist Fundamental Training Specialist Fitness and Sports Nutrition Specialist Behavior Change Specialist Fun Facts I was born in Anchorage, Alaska. I love bodybuilding and competed in NPC Figure nationally for 7 years! I have two rescue dogs that I love to paddleboard and hike with! Colin Powers I am an experienced personal trainer dedicated to empowering individuals through strength training. With a focus on helping teenagers develop proper weightlifting techniques, I create a safe and encouraging environment where young athletes can thrive. I also specialize in guiding clients of all ages to establish consistent workout routines, making fitness a sustainable part of their lives. My personalized programs are designed to promote weight loss while building strength and confidence. I would love to help you unlock your potential and achieve your fitness goals! Certifications: ISSA certified Personal Trainer American Red Cross Certified - Basic Life Support Fun Facts: I worked as a Chicago Police Officer for 10 years and I served as head fitness instructor at the Chicago Police Academy for 2 years Zachary Geist A recent University of Tampa graduate with a degree in Health Sciences and currently pursuing a career in physical therapy. I’m passionate about helping people build strength, improve mobility, and move better in their daily lives. With a strong understanding of movement and injury prevention, I create personalized, effective workouts that meet you where you’re at. Whether you’re new to fitness or working toward a specific goal, I’m here to support your progress every step of the way. NASM Certified Personal Trainer Purchase Group Training Purchase Personal Training Meet the Spurlino Y Trainers Lyn Gross-Vandross I believe in keeping the body guessing through various exercise modalities that improve movement quality, build muscle that help to refine overall body composition. As an exercise professional, I love working with clients and seeing them reach their own personal goals as get in shape but most importantly living a healthy lifestyle. I’m the most positive and energetic person you will know when it comes to training! Certifications: ISSA Fitness Coach ISSA Nutritionist Training Specialties: Weight loss specialist, nutrition coach, youth athletic coach Kristine Howell A balanced body must train to achieve the 5 components of fitness: cardio-respiratory fitness, muscular endurance, muscular strength, flexibility and healthy body composition. Certifications AAFA Certified Personal Trainer, Group Fitness Instructor & Indoor Cycling Instructor BOSU Certified Core Instructor SCW Certified Active Aging Movement Coach, Corrective Exercise Specialist, Yoga Fundamentals Instructor & Foam Rolling Coach TRX Certified Instructor Training Specialties Strength training for women over 40, functional training, corrective exercise, nutritional guidance & behavior modification, flexibility & mobility training Rachel Larsen I believe in training for functional fitness, to improve abilities and activities of daily living. "No Pain No Gain" is an outdated and dangerous practice. I believe in listening to your own body and respecting your boundaries while working just enough past your comfort zone to create growth and progress. Certifications ACSM Exercise Physiologist Enhance Fitness Instructor Aqua Instructor Bachelor's Degree in Exercise & Sport Science Training Specialty: active aging Michael Reed "It is a disgrace to grow old through sheer carelessness before seeing what manner of person you may become by developing your bodily strength and beauty to their highest limit." – Socrates. Let me help you become that person! Certifications: AFAA Personal Trainer ACE GroupEX Instructor LIVESTRONG Coach SilverSneakers / BOOM MUSCLE Instructor TRX Suspension Training Les Mills: Body Pump/Body Flow/CX Instructor Tatiana Leeson My focus is making clients feel confident, understood and empowered. I aim for self-efficacy and long term success through behavior-change approaches and providing the education that will support goals, lifestyle changes and exercise adherence. I encourage hard work while also reminding clients that health and wellness changes are a journey, not a competition. Certifications NASM Certified Personal Trainer Aqua Instructor Schwinn Cycling Instructor B.A. in Business Administration Zumba Instructor Training Specialties Strength training, mind-body, behavior-nutrition, weight management & lifestyle Erica Monroy Working one on one creating change, one day at a time; mentally and physically through movement. Helping anyone seeking to find themselves again through health and wellness, when they thought all was lost. I do not believe anyone is a failure; it will be tough, but YOU are tougher. Keep showing up. We will make an abundance of a difference within ourselves. Certifications B.S. Human Development & Family Studies 1SSA Personal Trainer TRAINING SPECIALTIES Flexibility & mobility, strength training for beginners, running coach for beginners; short & long distance, youth & adult Maribel Ducart I believe that you should live your life with passion and no excuses. As I embarked on my own personal weight loss journey back in 2016, I understand that each individual's journey is unique and I am here to help. I will work with you to design a personalized program with your goals in mind that will increase your energy and zest to live a healthier and more active lifestyle! Certifications Certified Personal Trainer LIVESTRONG Coach Group Exercise Instructor Y-DPP Lifestyle Coach Water Fitness Instructor TRAINING SPECIALTIES Weight Loss Specialist and behavior change. Howard Van Brunt My fitness philosophy centers on taking the time to truly understand my clients goals and crafting a personalized roadmap for their fitness journey, celebrating the small wins along the way. Certifications ISSA CPT ISSA Nutritionist Corrective Exercise American Red Cross CPR/AED/First Aid TRAINING SPECIALTIES Weight Loss Body Recomposition Extensive Supplement Knowledge Optimal Exercise Mechanics Muscle Development & Retention (hypertrophy) Private/Small Group Training How do I know which trainer is right for me? To determine the best trainer for your needs, please discuss with your Y's Wellness Director. When are trainers available? Personal trainers are available to train whenever the YMCA is open, however, they do not work regular hours, so it is important to have an appointment scheduled. What exercises will I do with my personal trainer? Each client will experience a unique workout specialized to his or her specific fitness goals. It is a good idea to write down some fitness goals and talk about them with your trainer before your first session. How often should I meet with my trainer? While you can meet with your trainer as often as you like, to get the best results, it is better to meet on a regular basis to keep on track with your fitness goals. How do I purchase personal and small group training? Purchases can be made at any of our YMCA Welcome Centers or online. Do you have to be a member to hire a YMCA personal trainer? While a membership is required for some training packages, non-members can purchase our 60-minute personal training packages or small group training packages. What is your cancellation policy? Please provide at least 24 hours notice for a cancellation. Personal training clients who provide less than 24 hour notice will be charged for their session. To cancel an appointment, please contact your trainer directly or call your YMCA. What is an InBody scan? An InBody scan is a comprehensive body composition analysis that provides detailed information on muscle mass, fat percentage and other metrics. Your first InBody scan is free when you sign up for personal training. Purchase Personal (one-on-one) & Group Training Once you complete your payment online, a Tampa Y staff member will contact you to get you started. If you have questions before registering, please call your YMCA. Weight Loss Intensive Program Intensive Weight Loss Program Our life coaches will give you the blueprints on how to effectively lose weight and meet your health goals. In this group, you can expect weekly weight-ins, physical and mental challenges, emails and a close group forum for extra support and accountability. The primary is to help participants identify and change the behaviors that have previously sabotaged long-term weight loss success. The Intensive Weight Loss Program is offered seasonally in eight-week sessions at these Tampa Y locations: Bob Sierra Family Y New Tampa Family Y Northwest Family Y Spurlino Family Y South Tampa Family Y
