Booking affordable airfare can be a turbulent process. Prices rise and fall day by day, or in some cases, hour by hour. In the past, frequent fliers swore by loose strategies to find deals — book on a Tuesday! No, on a Wednesday! Never on a weekend! — but experts caution that many suggestions don’t amount to more than myth. While finding cheap airfare might feel futile, it’s not impossible. Here’s what experts say you need to know. Flight prices fluctuate — a lot If you're looking for a cross-country flight this summer, you'll notice that the prices tend to go up and down. One day, it could cost $500 and the next, $450. Days later, the price has rocketed up to $800. Turns out, that’s normal. (Why you crave tomato juice on a flight) “Airfare is volatile,” says Katy Nastro, spokesperson for Going (formerly Scott’s Cheap Flights). “It's not ever a singular price.” Experts say there are several factors driving these fluctuations. “Flight prices are influenced by demand, competition, fuel costs, and seasonal trends,” says Melanie Fish, vice president of global public relations for Expedia Group. “If airlines notice they aren’t selling as many seats as expected, or low-cost carriers are coming in at a much lower price, they may adjust.” Use booking windows When deciding whether to book airfare, Nastro says you should always use what Going calls the Goldilocks Window, which is a range of time when fares are most likely to be low. For domestic off-season flights, she advises booking one-to-three months out, or three-to-seven months for peak summer or holidays. When flying internationally, Nastro suggests widening that period to two-to-eight months off season and four-to-10 months over peak periods. “Outside of those windows, if you’re getting to the edge, it’s in your best interest to go ahead and book because at that point, it’s not likely that you’re going to see that flight price drop.” And according to Expedia’s 2025 Air Hacks Report, which analyzed billions of data points from every airline together with the Airlines Reporting Corporation, when you book one-to-three months ahead of a domestic flight, you can save up to 25 percent compared to last-minute bookings. “Keep in mind that the beginning of the year is a popular time for people to start planning vacations, so if you're headed to Paris in June, for example, you'll want to book your flights and accommodations sooner rather than later,” says Fish. Even more granular, a 2024 report published by Google found that for domestic trips within the U.S., the average flight prices are lowest 38 days before departure. For international flights, average prices are lowest 101 days before departure, with a historical low-price range anytime 50 days or more before takeoff. However, that’s a guideline, not a guarantee. “It’s a common misconception that there is a singular best day out of the entire year that is going to be, in 100 percent certainty, when the flight you’re looking at is at the absolute cheapest,” says Nastro. Track and Analyze Your Flights The first thing you should do when considering a flight is set an alert. “You can use tools like Google Flights to set price alerts on flights you're tracking, so when the price changes, you'll get an email letting you know,” says Julian Kheel, founder and CEO of Points Path, a website helping consumers maximize rewards points and miles. “Deal alert websites such as Thrifty Traveler, Going, and Dollar Flight Club are all great ways to set your search on autopilot.” Flight alerts can even be useful if you’ve already purchased airfare. “Most major U.S. airlines made the vast majority of their airfares easy to rebook without paying a penalty — one exception is basic economy fares,” says Kheel. “So if you see a flight that seems reasonably priced, you should book it, but then continue to monitor it even after you book. If the price drops, it costs nothing to cancel and rebook at the lower price and get a flight credit for the difference.” Other tools can help determine if the price is reasonable. “If there’s enough reliable data, Google Flights will show price insights that let you know the cheapest time to book your chosen dates and destination,” says Sophia Lin, director of product management for Google Search, Travel & Local Experience. “This can help you decide whether to book today or wait for prices to go down, and it’s a really powerful way to see advice tailored for your specific plans.” There are better days to travel Experts promise there isn’t one day of the week when you’re guaranteed to see cheaper prices. “I don't want people to get fixated on the misconception they heard on TikTok that Tuesday at 2 p.m. is the best day, or that you should only book your flights on Saturdays. That’s just false,” Nastro says. “Twenty-plus years ago, airlines used to load their schedules onto the internet once a week so that Tuesday myth might have been true then, but these days, algorithms are so much more sophisticated. They don't load their fares once a week, they do it in real time,” says Nastro. However, it is true that some days are cheaper than others to fly. Expedia's recently released 2025 report says Sunday is the best day to book travel, but Google's 2024 report emphasizes that even though Tuesday has "historically been the cheapest day to book, it’s only 1.3 percent cheaper than the most expensive day." “There is no exact perfect day to book but there are days of the week that are better to fly on, not only for more elbow room but also in terms of affordability,” Nastro says. “In general, on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Saturday, you’ll find better prices as less people are traveling.” Some months are cheaper According to Expedia’s Winter Travel Outlook, which examined historical booking data, you can expect lower airfare prices in January and February due to a dip in demand following the busy holiday travel rush. The report found that average ticket prices for domestic flights in January are 10 percent cheaper than in December, and in February, international flights are 15 percent cheaper than in December. And while spring can be a busy time to travel, Nastro says that doesn’t mean it’s guaranteed to be expensive. “Spring break is technically a shoulder season, and it’s not the same week for every state or school district.” While summer is undoubtedly a peak travel period, if you want to go away then, timing is everything when it comes to saving money. Another Expedia study published last year found that August sees the cheapest average ticket prices of the season, with flights within the U.S. costing 15 percent less than they do in June. Or, wait until September after Labor Day Weekend, and average ticket prices for domestic flights will be nearly $100 cheaper than during the peak summer, or $200 cheaper in mid-October for international flights. Some flights always cost more While prices can be inconsistent, one thing is certain: last minute fares are expensive. “Waiting too long to book can be a high risk, high reward strategy. On one hand, you could snag an awesome deal. On the other, you could end up with longer layovers, sold out flights, or a higher ticket price,” says Fish. Experts also say there’s usually one culprit behind last-minute price hikes. “Business travelers often need to book at the last minute and are insensitive to prices, since their company is paying and the trip isn't optional,” says Kheel. “Airlines know this, and take advantage by raising their prices as the departure date of a flight approaches.” Last-minute deals are even less common when traveling overseas . “If you’re traveling abroad, our best advice is to book as early as possible,” says Lin. “Our analysis based on Google Flights data found that for international trips that start in the U.S., prices are lowest 50 days or more before departure date. In other words, prices only tend to rise the closer you get to takeoff, so there’s usually not much benefit in waiting.” Just don’t book too early, either. “Airlines don't need to come out of the gate with super cheap prices because they have all year,” Nastro says. Be flexible According to Google, their recommendation to book 38 days before a domestic flight came from analyzing all flights at any time of day, with or without layovers, or distinguishing between airport sizes. So, while cheap fares may be available then, they’re not always desirable. “Buying your tickets early is still advised if you’re particular about being on a certain flight because you want to avoid taking a redeye or you want to snag some exit row seats,” says Lin. “A ‘good’ flight combines convenience, comfort, and value. For example, a $90 flight isn’t necessarily a good deal if it includes three layovers or takes four times longer to get to the destination than normal," says Fish. Finally, be flexible — maybe even spontaneous. “The best tried and true method of getting low airfares is to travel to destinations at lower demand times when fewer people are clamoring to go to the same place,” says Kheel. “If you're willing to be the brave soul that travels to places where others aren't, you can score some excellent flight deals.” ( Related: Traveling in 2025? Here are the changes you need to know about )
