Find your tour Have a dream destination in mind? Whether you want to follow your appetite to Tuscany or go wild in America’s greatest national parks, our guided tour packages will get you there. Showing 1–17 of 265 tours Save up to $300 The perfect present needs no wrapping. Give yourself the gift of travel and save up to $300 by 12/23. Book now for just $99 down with AutoPay!† Showing 1–17 of 265 tours What to know before you go WHERE WE TAKE YOU Our 200+ tours take you around the world in 80+ countries. WE MAKE IT EASY When you travel with us, you won’t have to find flights, figure out where to stay, or worry about how to get from one place to the next. We’ll also secure priority admissions when we can and introduce you to locals where they live and work. THE GO AHEAD DIFFERENCE Exclusive experiences, free time on your own to explore, expertly vetted amenities, local guides, and do-it-all Tour Directors combined with unrivaled safety and on-tour support. UNIQUE EXPERIENCES ON TOUR Roll your own pasta in Rome, kick up your heels in a fiery flamenco class in Spain, stomp grapes for port wine in Portugal, rest up like a royal with a stay on castle grounds in England, and countless more forever memories. Traveling with a group? Bring 6+ friends with you, and your spot is free (including airfare)! Learn more Combine your Club Go credits Earn rewards for every trip with Club Go’s automatic, free membership. Join our loyalty program Already booked? Add excursions! Add handpicked experiences and stay longer on a tour extension. Customize your tour Experiential travel made easy You dream it. We’ll take care of every last detail. Pick your perfect trip We offer 200+ immersive, guided tours around the world. Wherever you choose to go, you’ll enjoy lots of advantages that make traveling with us different. Put just $99 down That’s all it takes to secure a spot on one of our group tours when you sign up for AutoPay. Plus, you can pay in interest-free, monthly installments. Prep your packing list While you’re deciding what to take, we’ll be busy arranging your hotels, meals, tickets, and more tour essentials. That’s what going guided is all about. Go far (and get rewarded) Take off on your big adventure— but why stop there? Every trip you book with us earns rewards that you can use to keep expanding your horizons. Not sure which tour is right for you? We’re here to help. Chat online Chat instantly with us during our normal hours, or leave a message and we’ll get back to you ASAP. Schedule a call Let us know your preferred time to chat and a travel expert will reach out. Call us We’re available every day from our offices in Boston and Denver at 1-855-590-1161 What travelers are saying about our guided trips 5 out of 5 stars 1st-time traveler Anthony J. Just about anyone could give you a basic tour of these three cities; even Google and that silly thing called A.I.. To make it an experience to always remember, you need a Tour... Traveled in Nov 2025 on A Week in Italy: Venice, Florence & Rome 5 out of 5 stars 2nd-time traveler Patricia This tour is very well planned by EFGA, which is why it is one of the most popular tours. The stops were well planned, and the pace is brisk but not crazy. I crossed several items... Traveled in Nov 2025 on Highlights of England, Scotland & Ireland 5 out of 5 stars 4th-time traveler Franchesca First, Pascal was a fantastic tour director. This tour gives you the highlights of London, Paris & Rome. It was probably my favorite tour that I’ve gone on and I’ve been on three... Traveled in Nov 2025 on London, Paris & Rome 5 out of 5 stars 1st-time traveler Tamara This trip was a dream come true!! Pascal was our Tour Director and his guidance and knowledge of each city made for a smooth and easy journey. He went above and beyond to make... Traveled in Nov 2025 on London, Paris & Rome 5 out of 5 stars 1st-time traveler Anonymous Loved the tour. Our tour guide Ali was very helpful and personable. The trip was worth every dollar. Enjoyed London the most. Met some very nice people as well. Will book another... Traveled in Nov 2025 on Highlights of England, Scotland & Ireland 5 out of 5 stars 1st-time traveler Nancy Our tour was excellent. Ali was an awesome tour guide and always had things under control. She was anxious to share highlights of every city we visited with suggestions of how... Traveled in Nov 2025 on Highlights of England, Scotland & Ireland 5 out of 5 stars 1st-time traveler Anonymous Apparently I missed responding to some of the evaluation questions. EVERY part of this tour was excellent, NO complaints whatsoever. Guide, transportation, hotels, restaurants,... Traveled in Nov 2025 on A Week in Italy: Venice, Florence & Rome 5 out of 5 stars 1st-time traveler Debra This trip was amazing! I was going alone and was a little apprehensive, but there were several in our group that were alone and the overall experience I felt safe, catered to, and... Traveled in Oct 2025 on A Week in Greece: Athens, Mykonos & Santorini Tips for planning tours & travel with us Here at Go Ahead, we make it easy to plan a tour. All you have to do is decide which of our travel packages excites you most, and when you’d like to travel. (A springtime escape to Europe, anyone?) If you can’t decide, we’ll help you narrow down our vacation packages and find the perfect trip. From there, we’ll take care of the rest. For travelers who book flights with us, our in-house team of travel experts will get to work finding flights with our trusted airline partners. And as you count down to tour, we’ll be busy booking clean, stylish, comfy hotels, planning meals at locally loved restaurants, and securing tickets to top museums, cultural sites, and, if it applies to your tour, special events. Having our team of travel experts take care of every last logistical detail is one of 10 benefits of a guided tour versus independent travel. How do I pick the right tour for me? When browsing our 175-plus vacation packages, here are a few things to keep in mind to help you find the just-right tours for travel to the places you’ve been dreaming of visiting. Your travel style. Are you into wildlife, adventure, or food and wine? Do you want to take a deep dive into a particular destination or religion? Want to experience a special event, or explore with a small group? We offer escorted tours designed around these travel styles and others so that travelers can have the experience that suits them best. Where you want to go. Whether you’ve long dreamed of exploring America’s national parks, Scotland’s pristine landscapes, or Thailand’s golden temples, you can do it on our guided tours. Some of our itineraries are designed to offer travelers a deeper dive into a single country. Others take travelers to multiple countries in a single trip (think Germany, Austria, and Switzerland, or Portugal, Spain, and Morocco). When you want to go. Sure, there’s nothing like Paris in the springtime. But maybe seeing the City of Light against a backdrop of fiery fall foliage is more what you have in mind. We’ll make that happen. We offer dozens of departures per tour, and in the case of some trips, we offer departures all year round. And, we make tours available for booking up to two years in advance. Having more time to pay, and more departure dates to choose from, are among the eight benefits of booking a trip years in advance. Special or seasonal events. Have you always wanted to see cherry blossoms blooming in Japan? Or sip hot, mulled wine while wandering around a European Christmas market? Perhaps witnessing the Great Migration is at the top of your travel wish list. Events like these, and others, only happen during certain times of year, so be sure to check out tour packages for travel that occur at the same time. Duration. Our tours range from six days to 22 days. Want to enjoy a quick break? Consider our shorter tours, which we offer in destinations such as Iceland, Spain, and Amsterdam. Have more time to spare? A 10-day trip to Scandinavia, or a 22-day tour of Australia and New Zealand, could be just the ticket. Who you want to travel with. Many of our group trips are designed for groups of 15 to 38 travelers. (Think: more opportunities to make new friends.) If you prefer a more intimate experience, consider one of our Small Group Tours, which are designed for groups of 10 to 22 travelers. Want to explore solely with your friends or family? We happily craft Private Tours and Customized Tours for groups of seven travelers or more. Our trips are bookable directly through our website. (Putting $99 down with AutoPay, our interest-free payment plan, is all it takes to secure your spot on tour.) If you have questions or can’t decide which tour is right for you, you can call us at 1-800-590-1161. We’re here to help. We offer more than 200 tour packages. They include: Guided group tours. These trips are designed for groups of 15 to 38 travelers and include Multi-Country Tours, single-country tours, and City Stay Tours, which give travelers an opportunity to explore a particular city in depth. Small Group Tours. A more intimate tour experience with a group size of just 10 to 22 travelers. Small group travel styles include Food & Wine Tours, Adventure Tours, and Safari & Wildlife Tours. Special Event Tours. Typically capped at 35 or 38 travelers, these trips are designed to capture the magic of special and/or seasonal events, such as Oktoberfest, Oberammergau, New Year’s Eve, St. Patrick’s Day, Sakura (cherry blossom) season, fall foliage, Christmas markets of Europe, Halloween, and more. Find the perfect tour for you by browsing our Special Event tours. Private and Customized Tours. Have a particular interest you want to explore? We happily plan Private and for groups of 10 or more travelers. Want to plan a Custom Tour? Go custom with as few as 14 travelers. Enjoy everything you get on all of our tours (staff-vetted hotels, guided sightseeing, authentic meals), plus some pretty amazing extras. The price of our trip packages includes: A specially trained [Tour Director](/about/tour-directors], who will accompany your group on tour, from the moment you touch down in your destination to the time you take off again for home Sightseeing tours with expert local guides Skip-the-line admission to all museums, cultural sites, and special events that are included in your itinerary Overnight stays in clean, stylish, well-located hotels that our own staffers have stayed in and vetted Transportation in your destination via private, luxury coach (depending on which tour you book, you may also travel by train, ferry, or airplane on tour ) Daily breakfast at your hotel (a relaxed, convenient way to fuel up for a full day of exploring) Some lunches and dinners at local restaurants or hotels Free time to explore local restaurants, historical sites—anything that piques your interest—at your own pace Airport transfers for travelers who book flights with us
