Africa Overview Across Africa, timeless landscapes and vibrant cultures stir the senses. From safaris on the sweeping plains of the Serengeti to the souks of Marrakech, from the pyramids of Egypt to the golden dunes of Namibia, discover extraordinary diversity. Journey through Kenya, Tanzania, Morocco, Egypt, South Africa, Botswana, Zambia, and beyond – where the rhythm of life is felt in every step, story, and horizon. View Our Africa Tours Antarctica & the Arctic Overview Exploring the world through natural history travels are at the heart of two of our most popular journeys – an expeditionary cruise to Antarctica and our popular (and fascinating) land expedition to Churchill, Manitoba in search of the polar bears. You'll learn, explore and become part of a special group of travelers who are explorers… discoverers… adventurers… making a deeper connection with the world around us, a world that beckons and inspires with travel experiences unlike any other. View Our Antarctica Tours Asia Overview Across Asia high-tech cultures are evolving beside ancient ones. From the elegant simplicity of a Japanese tea room to the neon cityscapes of Tokyo; from the intricate art of a Cambodian temple; from elephant walks to frenetic street markets to the serene beauty of the Taj Mahal, we'll guide you through the exotic pageantry of Asia: Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Japan, India and Thailand, where there's never a lack of excitement for the eye, the palate, or the imagination. View Our Asia Tours Australia & New Zealand Overview It's only a short flight from Australia's wildly diverse landscapes, cultures, and cities to New Zealand's volcanic islands, geysers, and mystical fjords. And you can visit the countries together on our comprehensive Down Under tours which include Melbourne, Uluru Rock, the Great Barrier Reef, and Sydney, then a hop across the Tasman Sea to Wellington, Fjordlands, Auckland (and more). Or explore New Zealand's wonders by small ship, and fly to Australia for a walk on the wild side. View Australia & New Zealand Tours Canada Overview O Canada! Land of breathtaking natural wonders, from Fundy Bay and thundering Horseshoe Falls to the turquoise lakes and glacier-clad peaks of the Canadian Rockies. The world's second-largest country offers a larger-than-life playground of diverse landscapes and cultures, postcard-perfect fishing towns, Old World cities, vast forests, cosmopolitan capitals where the hotels are historic and grand. And we haven't even mentioned the maple syrup. View Our Canada Tours Europe Overview "I took the road less traveled," said Robert Frost, "and that has made all the difference," a useful paradigm for traveling anywhere, but especially on the Continent. The Yellow Roads of Europe are routes off the beaten path that bring you closer to the less-visited sights and the everyday life of the country. Explore by land, river cruises, small ship cruises, Tauck Bridges family adventures, and for the truly adventurous, small group tours. View Our Europe Tours Israel & Jordan Overview Israel may be small geographically but it is a country of epic proportions, rich with ancient sites and stories that stir the imagination within a modern, kaleidoscopic mix of immigrants, ethnicities, cultures, and religions. Situated at the crossroads of Asia, Africa and Europe, the country of Jordan delights from the archaeological treasures and antiquities of Petra to resort pleasures along the Dead Sea. View Our Israel & Jordan Tours Latin America Overview Costa Rica is tropical rainforests and exotic wildlife. Argentina is arid and distinctly European. Patagonia is an anomaly of animals, glaciers and jagged mountains. Brazil is Rio, Amazon jungles and Andean peaks. In Peru mountain cities and Incan ruins wait to be explored. Every region has its own dialects, but everywhere the technicolor landscapes speak the same language of adventure. View Our Latin America Tours Middle East Overview Ancient sites play headlining roles in Middle Eastern countries, where a cultural tapestry rich with timeless traditions and tales of life long ago coexists with present-day innovations. Whether you're exploring Israel, Jordan, Egypt or Morocco, our journeys through the Middle East introduce you to timeless architectural treasures and cultural legacies to be learned, shared and experienced. View Our Middle East Tours United States of America Overview As diverse as it gets, from the fishing villages of Maine to the cliffs of Big Sur, from southwest canyons to tropical rainforests, volcanoes, Rocky Mountains, Pacific islands, Yellowstone, Giant Sequoias, towering cityscapes, blue-tinted glaciers, luminous fall foliage, lush vineyards, living Colonial museums, Newport mansions, and New Orleans jazz halls to the marble halls of Washington, DC. With insights from Ken Burns, America's Storyteller. View Our USA Tours What's New What's New A Week In... Mexico City and Oaxaca Bordeaux, Paris & The Seine A Week In… Copenhagen & Oslo Paradise Valley, Yellowstone & the Tetons
