Over the last decade, the popularity of machine learning (ML), artificial intelligence (AI), and neural networks have grown significantly. In business areas ranging from healthcare to entertainment, AI and machine learning solutions are used to increase personalization and automate routine tasks. Yellow, a machine learning app development company, is ready to help you take advantage of new market opportunities, achieve your business goals, and reach even greater heights. Machine learning software development services we provide If you need machine learning application development to empower your business and explore broader opportunities, here is what Yellow can help you with. Machine learning development We offer advanced ML and neural network development for businesses of every scale from small local startups to multinational enterprises. Specialists from Yellow are ready to build a solution that will meet your needs and improve the processes you want to address. Read more Machine learning development We offer advanced ML and neural network development for businesses of every scale from small local startups to multinational enterprises. Specialists from Yellow are ready to build a solution that will meet your needs and improve the processes you want to address. Read more Big data analysis Working with big data will provide you with definite patterns and valuable insights for your sales and marketing teams. The Yellow team will build a suitable AI and machine learning solution that will analyze raw data accurately. Read more Big data analysis Working with big data will provide you with definite patterns and valuable insights for your sales and marketing teams. The Yellow team will build a suitable AI and machine learning solution that will analyze raw data accurately. Read more Predictive algorithms Predictive analysis is a powerful tool for almost any business. With the help of your existing data and ML models, you can predict the behavior of your customers and market conditions in order to prepare for changes in advance. With the algorithms made by Yellow, you will be able to take a glance into the future. Read more Predictive algorithms Predictive analysis is a powerful tool for almost any business. With the help of your existing data and ML models, you can predict the behavior of your customers and market conditions in order to prepare for changes in advance. With the algorithms made by Yellow, you will be able to take a glance into the future. Read more Computer vision This service processes real-world photos and videos with capable algorithms. It can be used in a variety of applications and perform countless functions ranging from face detection to vehicle tracking. The combination of proven computer vision tools and top-notch talents at Yellow will create a solution to meet your needs. Read more Computer vision This service processes real-world photos and videos with capable algorithms. It can be used in a variety of applications and perform countless functions ranging from face detection to vehicle tracking. The combination of proven computer vision tools and top-notch talents at Yellow will create a solution to meet your needs. Read more Natural language processing (NLP) Machine learning solutions based on natural language processing algorithms can be used for apps in various industries such as IoT, healthcare, smart homes, and business workflow optimization. We work with text-to-speech and speech-to-text algorithms, text analysis, and translation. Read more Natural language processing (NLP) Machine learning solutions based on natural language processing algorithms can be used for apps in various industries such as IoT, healthcare, smart homes, and business workflow optimization. We work with text-to-speech and speech-to-text algorithms, text analysis, and translation. Read more AI-powered chatbots Chatbots are automated solutions that empower your customer service, facilitate communication with your clients, and boost internal workflow. They can work with the help of scripts, but AI-based solutions are more personalized and efficient. Yellow has more than six years of experience in working with chatbots of various types. Read more AI-powered chatbots Chatbots are automated solutions that empower your customer service, facilitate communication with your clients, and boost internal workflow. They can work with the help of scripts, but AI-based solutions are more personalized and efficient. Yellow has more than six years of experience in working with chatbots of various types. Read more Reasons for choosing AI & ML AI and machine learning are powerful tools to enhance your business capabilities, facilitate processes, and open up new opportunities in any business area. Process automation Machine learning development will help you automate repetitive and routine tasks and lessen the burden on your employees by shifting these tedious operations to digital solutions. Read more Process automation Machine learning development will help you automate repetitive and routine tasks and lessen the burden on your employees by shifting these tedious operations to digital solutions. Read more Simplified data processing Instead of spending a lot of time and resources on manual data analysis, you can get the information and insights you need much faster with less effort. Read more Simplified data processing Instead of spending a lot of time and resources on manual data analysis, you can get the information and insights you need much faster with less effort. Read more Personalized customer experience Provide your customers with superior personalization through insights received with the help of data analysis and advanced machine learning algorithms. Read more Personalized customer experience Provide your customers with superior personalization through insights received with the help of data analysis and advanced machine learning algorithms. Read more Industry-specific benefits Fighting financial crimes, predicting marketing trends, managing real estate, and diagnosing diseases can all be assisted by machine learning technologies. Read more Industry-specific benefits Fighting financial crimes, predicting marketing trends, managing real estate, and diagnosing diseases can all be assisted by machine learning technologies. Read more Machine learning app development process As an ML application development firm, we follow a proven strategy that ensures your project will work as it should. Discovery We analyze your business needs, estimate the cost and timeframe of your project, and discuss your expectations about possible results. Setup work Next, we create tech stack recommendations, conduct interviews with potential team members, and prepare a project roadmap. Design If the visual part is required, in this step, we create a user-friendly and eye-pleasing design to provide a comfortable user experience. Development By implementing specific machine learning algorithms, we create an ML model for your data and assess it in a realistic environment. Quality assurance When everything is built and reviewed, we implement automated and manual testing to ensure everything works as it should. Release and support After finalizing the testing process, we approve the solution with you and provide assistance for maintenance after the release. ML development services for every industry We provide custom machine learning development services for the following industries. Why hire Yellow as a machine learning software development firm? Business-first approach Your business needs are our top priority. All the processes from research prototyping to testing and deployment are performed to help you reach your goals, not just for show. Read more Business-first approach Your business needs are our top priority. All the processes from research prototyping to testing and deployment are performed to help you reach your goals, not just for show. Read more Client participation You will never get left behind in the project. Throughout the whole development process, we provide daily updates about the completed and ongoing tasks. Read more Client participation You will never get left behind in the project. Throughout the whole development process, we provide daily updates about the completed and ongoing tasks. Read more Product lab Our team has a product lab where we create our own applications. We apply the experience and knowledge gained from each app’s life cycle to client projects. Read more Product lab Our team has a product lab where we create our own applications. We apply the experience and knowledge gained from each app’s life cycle to client projects. Read more AI & ML experience We have been working with neural networks and machine learning projects for more than seven years and have gained a significant level of expertise in this field. Read more AI & ML experience We have been working with neural networks and machine learning projects for more than seven years and have gained a significant level of expertise in this field. Read more Data security At the very beginning of the process, we will sign a non-disclosure agreement with you, so you can rest assured that all your data and business information will stay protected with us. Read more Data security At the very beginning of the process, we will sign a non-disclosure agreement with you, so you can rest assured that all your data and business information will stay protected with us. Read more Extensive support During all the stages of the ML software development process including post-release, we are ready to answer your questions and help you maintain your AI or ML solution. Read more Extensive support During all the stages of the ML software development process including post-release, we are ready to answer your questions and help you maintain your AI or ML solution. Read more Our works Here are several examples of how machine learning app development services helped our partners. What people say I liked working with them because they were good. With their work, we increased our mobile app’s user usage. We also got reviewed as one of the top 10 employee engagement services in Europe. Their project management was really good. They worked in sprints, and I always communicated directly with their developer. More importantly, they were attentive to our project's details. Browser compatibility and readability have increased markedly since the engagement began. Yellow's development process helped them beat deadlines and respond quickly to any technical concerns that arose. Their ability to bring creative ideas of their own to the table made them a valuable partner. Yellow typically understood exactly what the issue was and came back with a fix right away. Jerry Sparkman IT Director, National Association of Tax Professionals If you are looking for a partner to collaborate with for the development process, I would consider hiring Yellow. Yellow has an intelligent team of developers that collaborated on the project to build a quality app. They follow instructions seamlessly, respond effectively to feedback, and invest themselves in the overall success of the product. I would happily use them again if we needed developing services. Chris Pointon CTO, Racefully Yellow is by far the best at helping us make decisions to push our company forward. I’d heard about them through a personal connection in the Bay Area. Yellow stands out because they’re invested in the results and clients. Every single person on Yellow’s team genuinely cares about what they’re doing. I really appreciate that about them and it’s the main reason we will continue our relationship for as long as possible. William Hamilton Co-Founder, SmartPath.co Yellow quickly and seamlessly assimilated into a fast-paced and nuanced workflow, completing all deliverables on time. Responsive to questions, updates, and issues, they have streamlined management operations and reduced work backlogs by directing communication to appropriate in-house team members. Eric Morgan Product Manager, Speed Digital The new features have been well received by users. Attentive and flexible, the team excelled at responding to stakeholders in a timely matter. Their technical expertise allows them to propose valuable solutions. Engaged, supportive, and invested in project success, the team offered constructive criticism, creative guidance, and honest communication. Their user-centered approach resulted in a unique and reliable product that operates well on all systems. Jim Barkow Founder, Famlicious Inc. Because of marketing costs, the B2C application fell out of use in favor of a different B2B tool. Yellow was very focused on customer satisfaction, and they participated regularly in standups. They helped solidify features, and they thoroughly explained their process. Sandro Tuzzo CEO, Separate.us We’re impressed with their loyalty and honesty. They were able to stay true to their original quote even though we needed to change and add a few requirements. They’ve done a lot of good work for us on all fronts, but it's amazing to see that they’re able to stick to what they initially promised. Mainly, I go by client feedback to judge Yellow’s performance, and the clients have been very impressed with their work. The team is exact in what they do, their delivery has been good, and they’re on time and budget. Their performance was good. I didn’t expect that kind of performance from someone working offsite. I was happy that they completed the project ahead of schedule, so we had some time left to work on additional projects and improvements. Max Abukhovsky CEO & Founder, Coverium When Yellow is working on a task, they understand how it will impact the product down the line. The team has provided great insight into our processes, making sure we don’t make small mistakes that will impact us in a larger way in the future. Christopher Bianco CEO, Hyvery inc. They were very accessible regardless of the time difference as well as communication was good. We had a couple bumps here and there regarding designs that were not originally discussed in our UX/UI designs but they were quick to find solutions as well as any needed changes we requested. Bradley J. Humble Co-Founder & CTO, DealStryker, Inc. Answering questions How can ML benefit my business? Machine learning models will help you automate repetitive tasks, provide you with strategic insights for the future, and reduce the workload for your employees. In which industries is ML a good fit? Machine learning technologies can benefit all types of businesses ranging from predictive algorithms for financial institutions to natural language processing for communication and entertainment. How long does it take to build a machine learning solution? Since every solution has different requirements and specifications, every project will have different time frames, ranging from weeks to months. Feel free to contact us for a detailed estimate. Can Yellow staff work alongside my own machine learning team? Yes, we can work together with your team to develop an AI or ML solution.
