At The Judge Group, we understand that artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are more than mere buzzwords — they are leading-edge technologies that can bring about significant changes in the way modern businesses operate. But without the proper talent, training, and technology resources, organizations cannot leverage the power of AI and ML to drive growth, productivity, and innovation. Whether you’re looking to automate routine tasks, analyze data to gain new business insights or build custom AI models to help you solve complex problems, we have the talent and expertise you need. Why Judge? From natural language processing to predictive modeling and robotics, there are dozens of AI and ML applications your business can master to get ahead. We work closely with organizations to uncover their technology and needs, and engineer ML and AI business solutions tailored to deliver against your business priorities. Investments in Internal Technology Not only do we provide AI, ML, and predictive analytics solutions to our clients, we also use these tools in our own business to quickly build candidate pipelines and decrease turnaround time on talent placement. Access to Niche Skill Sets Our candidate database is full of cross-functional IT experts with specific AI and ML skill sets, including augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), robotic process automation (RPA), computer vision and image processing, and much more. Proven Track Record of Success We provide AI consulting services to companies large and small, including household brand names and Fortune 100 enterprises, as well as boutique firms and regional businesses. Our AI and Machine Learning Services and Staffing Solutions ML & AI Staffing Solutions Whether you need a data scientist fluent in multiple programming languages or an AI product manager who can define a product strategy and roadmap, our AI recruiters have access to thousands of AI and ML experts equipped with the skills you need to advance your business. We routinely place AI- and ML-focused positions, including: AI Architects Data Architects AI Solution Scientists ML Engineers ML and Modeling Engineers AI and ML Researchers AI Developers Native Language Processing (NLP) Engineers AI Ethics Consultants Robotics Engineers AI Technical Writers ML Software Engineers Learning & Development Solutions We design and deliver training programs that help individuals sharpen the AI and ML skills that allow their organizations to outperform the competition. We offer a range of courses and workshops that cover topics such as: AI and ML Fundamentals ML Learning Algorithms Deep Learning Natural Language Processing (NLP) Computer Vision Ethics and Governance in AI AI Consulting Solutions Deploying ML and AI business solutions isn’t a light lift, especially for organizations with limited in-house IT expertise. Judge provides consultative guidance on everything from AI and ML implementations to speeding up business processes and workflows. Our expertise includes: Strategy and Road Mapping Development and Deployment Data Science Environment Predictive Modeling Complete MLOps Chatbots and in-Database Learning Our AI/ML Expertise: Awards View all News Related Resources View all Resources Harnessing the Power of Generative AI: Transforming Your Technology Team The landscape of artificial intelligence (AI) is experiencing a remarkable evolution, and at the forefront of this transformation is the advent of generative AI. Generative AI, short for “Generative Artificial Intelligence,” refers to a subset of artificial intelligence that… Read Blog about Harnessing the Power of Generative AI: Transforming Your Technology Team Recruitment Using Artificial Intelligence Recruiters are utilizing cognitive software and tools to filter thousands of job applications and candidate profiles as per their requirements, saving time when filling positions. Read Blog about Recruitment Using Artificial Intelligence The Future of AI and Machine Learning in Banking Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are transforming the financial industry before our very eyes. In this blog, we are looking at the ways AI and ML are impacting the banking and financial industry. Read Blog about The Future of AI and Machine Learning in Banking Meet the Team Executive Vice President, Sales President & Chief Technology Officer, Judge Consulting & Government Services President, Judge Learning Solutions Lead – AI-ML-RPA Solutions
