Topics SEL Equity Methodology Assessment Multilingual Learners Culture & Community Policy EdTech Materials Reading Careers Translation Leadership Science of Reading Curriculum News Research Science & Technology Education Indigenous World Culture Opinion Languages English Spanish French German Chinese Italian Japanese Arabic Russian Portuguese Korean Other Languages Study Abroad Learn Spanish Learn Portuguese Learn French Study Abroad Articles AllEnglish immersion schoolsSpanish immersion schoolsFrench immersion schoolsChinese immersion schools Spanish Studies Study Abroad Building Young Writers’ Stamina Second Language Literacy Unlocking the Vietnamese Language: A Student’s Perspective in Saigon Study Abroad Fastest Growth in US International Students in 40 Years Study Abroad Literacy/ESL Jobs Training PROFESSIONAL TEACHER PREP PROGRAMS Professional Development MA TESOL Directory Reading Masters Directory Resources ≡ About Contact Us Archives Calendar Jobs Subscribe SUBSCRIBE HomeLanguage News U.S. Department of Ed Awards $256 Million in Literacy Grants The U.S. Department of Education has announced $256 million in new Education Innovation and Research (EIR) grants to improve literacy nationwide. These grants are... Los Angeles Schools Sign Portuguese Deal In between protecting his students from immigration agents entering their schools and campaigning against raids in Los Angeles, the city’s schools superintendent Alberto M.... Pleased to Read There’s been a steady decline in Americans who read for pleasure over the past few decades, according to a recent study by researchers from... Reading Legislation Update DELAWARE: New Bridge to Practice Grant to Strengthen Early Literacy Delaware Secretary of Education Cindy Marten has announced a new investment to strengthen and accelerate... California’s Universal Pre-K ‘Historic Step Toward Equity’ A new report from Californians Together and the English Learners Workforce Investment Initiative (EL-WIN) finds that California’s universal pre-K (UPK) initiative is a historic... Chinese Students of Spanish Turn to Reggaeton According to a study from the Catalan Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), Chinese students are turning to social media videos of reggaeton stars such as... Help Shape California’s Educational Future You may write in MULTILINGUALISM if you think it's important! Dyslexia Redefined The International Dyslexia Association (IDA) has released its 2025 Dyslexia Definition—the first revision since its widely recognized 2002 definition that has guided research, shaped... International Study Supports Evidence-Based Solutions to Improve Global Literacy A new report, based on 120 studies on effective reading instruction conducted across Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East and covering more... Paraguay Launches Archive to Preserve Guaraní and Jopará Paraguay has unveiled one of the region’s most ambitious cultural preservation projects with the launch of Proyecto Guaraní–Revista Ysyry, a digital archive and bilingual... Massive Genetic Study Reveals Insights into Reading Difficulty, Dyslexia Researchers from the University of Edinburgh in Scotland, the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics in Germany, and other institutions have completed the biggest genetic... CA Funds Evidence-Based Reading Legislation Amid Test Score Success California Governor Gavin Newsom has signed Assembly Bill 1454 which provides the funding and direction to “ensure that educators and school leaders have access... 123...163Page 1 of 163 ― Advertisement ― U.S. Department of Ed Awards $256 Million in Literacy Grants Los Angeles Schools Sign Portuguese Deal Pleased to Read Reading Legislation Update California’s Universal Pre-K ‘Historic Step Toward Equity’ Chinese Students of Spanish Turn to Reggaeton ― Advertisement ― Subscribe for exclusive content Language Magazine is a monthly print and online publication that provides cutting-edge information for language learners, educators, and professionals around the world. Subscribe Home About Terms of Use Contact Us Archives Calendar Translation Jobs Subscribe Language Magazine 2025 We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Do not sell my personal information. Cookie SettingsAccept
