Displaying 1 - 20 of 123 articles AI-fueled technologies make communicating in other languages easier than ever, but it still can’t replace the transformative value of learning a new language. There is no age limit to our ability to learn a new language. By listening more closely to the interests and goals of young people in schools, we can start to provide the language teaching they want. Quebec research suggests some immigrant students may never make it from language-support placements to mainstream classes. Learning a language gives you unique insights into different cultures, societies and perspectives. Our brains find it easier to process a familiar accent, meaning irony often gets lost in interpretation. Reading too early may slow adults’ language learning progress. Cuts to literacy and language training for newcomers to Canada threaten the well-being of both migrant communities and all Canadians. You can learn a lot of useful language along with your baby. What people believe about their aptitude has a role to play in language learning. Researchers identified statistically coherent patterns in whale song that may be a signature of cultural learning. The findings shake up previous ideas about language learning – and give us an earlier window to help children who might be at risk of speech or language delays. Emotions are more vivid in your mother tongue, but you’re more objective when speaking a second language. Since 2003, the number of GCSE entries in German has fallen from 125,663 to this year’s 35,913. Reshaping your study habits with four essential techniques could reignite your progress and help you push past your current level. Spanish has two ways of saying “be”, which forces language learners to see the world in a whole new way. In some languages, spelling matches pronunciation, while in others (like English) this is far from true. There isn’t much lesson time for international languages. If you’re lucky enough to be able to teach your child several languages, don’t hesitate! As your bond deepens and matures, your language skills should similarly progress.
