Cleaning Services Taskrabbit can help make your home sparkle! Same day cleaning available. Book a Tasker for one time or recurring cleaning today! House Cleaning Services Looking for house cleaning services? Let us help. No matter the task, local cleaners can handle all your residential and home cleaning needs. Deep Cleaning Have a space that needs extra attention to make it sparkle? Taskers will apply some elbow grease to the job. Disinfecting Services Need someone to disinfect your home or office? Hire a Tasker to take care of your disinfecting service needs. Move In Cleaning About to move in to a new house? Make home sweet home a reality with pre move in cleaning service from an experienced Tasker. Move Out Cleaning You can't move out of your house without cleaning first. Save yourself a headache and have a trusted Tasker provide end of lease cleaning services. Vacation Rental Cleaning Airbnb tenants can leave a mess sometimes. For all your vacation rental cleaning service needs, your Tasker can take care of it. Carpet Cleaning Service Get help with those tough stains in your rugs and carpets! Garage Cleaning Garage cluttered and dirty? Taskers can clean it up and leave it perfectly organized. One Time Cleaning Services No time to clean the house? Rest easy and let a Tasker help. Make your home look spotless with efficient one time cleaning and maid service. Car Washing Hire a Tasker to get your car looking like new! Laundry Help Laundry basket overflowing? Taskers can wash, dry, fold, iron, and even pick-up dry cleaning. Pressure Washing Hire a Tasker to help power wash the exterior of your home, driveway and more. Spring Cleaning Pollen and cat hair and dust bunnies – oh my. We’ll get your home sparkling clean and allergen-free in no time. Cross off that to-do 1 Select your Tasker Describe your task and choose a background checked and client-reviewed Tasker for the job 2 Schedule a time Get your task done — on your time 3 Pay when it’s done Pay seamlessly through the TaskRabbit platform only after your task is complete Hear What People Are Saying Adam did a fantastic job! My bathroom and kitchen are sparkling now. Thanks Adam! - Victoria M. "Heavy scrubdown" didn't really describe what needed to be done. "Heavy, heavy" would have been more accurate. Steffi met the challenge in the time allotted and my space feels and looks so much better. Also appreciate Steffi's punctuality! - Dean C. I had out of town guests coming in and was scrambling to get things ready, and Luca saved the day! She showed up right on time, worked fast and efficiently, and left my place sparkling clean. I'll definitely be contacting her the next time my place needs some shine. - Sacha W. Frequently asked questions How much will I pay to hire a cleaner? Right now, cleaning services start at about $30 an hour, although prices vary from Tasker to Tasker. Can a cleaner come today? Yes! Many Taskers can be booked for same day cleaning services. Whether it's cleaning up after a party or a one-time cleaning, Taskers will make your home sparkle and look like new. Do I have to be there during the cleaning? No, you don’t. But if you’d like to be on-site, you can. If you’d prefer the Tasker gets your place cleaned while you’re away, just make sure they know all the details –– from how to get into the property, to your cleaning checklist, and how to lock up when they’re finished. Do I need to provide the cleaning supplies? Providing cleaning supplies is optional! Most Taskers are happy to bring their own cleaning supplies. If you prefer they don’t use bleach or only use organic cleaners –– no problem. Just make sure your preferences are spelled out in the description and communicate with your Tasker. What is the difference between a deep clean and a standard clean? A standard clean is more of a cleaning upkeep, the basic cleaning that needs to be done on a fairly regular basis. Deep cleaning is a more intensive cleaning that should also be done regularly but not necessarily as often as a standard cleaning. Deep cleaning usually targets difficult to reach or clean areas, such as going in and under the refrigerator or getting out all the dirt that might have been swept under the rug. How long does carpet cleaning take? House Cleaning Service There are all sorts of things that can happen in a day. Good or bad, it’s always nice to have Taskers help you stay on top of cleaning so that you always come home to a clean house. Hire a Tasker as a same day cleaner or for recurring services. Save time and stress with cleaning services. Is it really possible to work a full time job, have a social life, give back to your community, eat well, AND have a clean house? Yes, but only if you don’t expect to take it all on yourself! Have a Tasker come take some of that pressure off your shoulders so you can have more time doing what matters to you while also being able to come home and recharge in a clean house. From pressure washing to regular cleanings, our Taskers are ready to help. No cleaning supplies? No problem. Taskers will usually bring their own cleaning supplies, but if you have something you’d like them to use that’s fine too! Feel free to communicate your expectations and preferences. Same-day, weekly, and monthly cleaning services available. Your schedule, your rules. You can get help cleaning whenever you need it! Find a Tasker you like and want to hire regularly? We can make that happen. Just let your Taskers know what you need and we’ll connect you with someone who can help!
