MaidPro Vista, CA Connect with us 574 East Mission Road Suite G1 San Marcos, CA 92069 Vista House Cleaning Services When you're looking for Vista maid service, look at MaidPro. We're making California shine, one house at a time, serving, the entire Vista area. MaidPro is Vista's premier cleaning service. Whether you want weekly, bi-weekly or just a one-time house cleaning, we'll design your maid service around your needs. We understand that hiring a maid service can be a big decision, and we will work with you to ensure your 'hot spots' are cleaned the way you want them done, on time, every time. Promotions FRIDGE CLEAN Save $75.00 Cleaning your home is a big deal to us. That's why we have a 49-Point Checklist™ Before we start cleaning, we always ask what areas you think need the most attention in your home. From there, we follow our 49-Point Checklist to ensure a consistent and quality clean - every time. Your home, cleaned just The way you like it At MaidPro, we customize our service to meet your needs and budget. We offer a full range of house cleaning services and use a 49-Point Checklist™ to guarantee your home is cleaned correctly, every time. Kitchens, bathrooms, floors and dusting are our specialties. Beyond that, we focus on areas of your home selected by you. Professional cleaning service, with a personal touch We know and trust our MaidPro employees on a personal and professional level. Our cleaning PROs undergo thorough background checks prior to employment and are bonded and insured. They also receive extensive maid service training to reinforce the skills needed to clean to the highest standards—yours! And while we strive to help our employees work to their greatest ability, we also make sure to have fun. Because when you love what you do, it shows in your work. MaidPro Vista, CA House Cleaning Services Frequently Asked Questions Q Do you offer services like deep carpet cleans or window cleaning? MaidPro San Marcos is proud to offer the 49-Point Cleaning Checklist, add-ons and a wide variety of other cleaning services, but we do not offer carpet or window cleaning at this time. Q Are your cleaners insured and background-checked? Yes! All our PROs are carefully screened and trained, with every house cleaner being hired, trained, licensed, bonded and insured by us. Q Do I need to be home during the cleaning? No. As long as we have instructions and a way into your home, you do not need to be present for your cleaning appointment. Q How do I book a cleaning appointment? We offer free estimates on all our cleaning services. Fill out our form to give us some basic details about your cleaning, and we'll be in touch to give you an estimate and book your first clean! Q What is your cancellation and rescheduling policy? We understand things happen and you may not be able to keep your scheduled cleaning services — that's OK! Just let us know a minimum of two business days in advance of your appointment, and we'll do our best to shift your schedule. When rescheduling or canceling your home cleaning services, please contact your local MaidPro. Q What if I’m not satisfied with the cleaning? Your satisfaction is a big deal to us. Our PROs try their best to ensure you have a sparkling clean home every time, but we understand you may be unsatisfied every once in a while. Our PRO Clean Promise means that we'll fix any oversight or misunderstanding with your clean, as long as you notify us within 24 hours of your cleaning appointment. Q Do you bring your own cleaning supplies and equipment? Yes! Our PROs come equipped with everything they need to give your house or business a top-to-bottom shine, so you don't need to worry about providing any supplies or equipment. Q What payment methods do you accept? MaidPro San Marcos accepts cash, check, ACH transfer and all major credit cards for all our cleaning services. Q What should I do before MaidPro arrives? No need to run the vacuum before we arrive — that's what you hire us for! However, for the most efficient and effective clean, we ask that you please pick up any toys, clothing or trash before we arrive. Also, make sure your pets are somewhere comfortable so we don't disrupt their peace. For more information on what we need from you to help make our clean a success, visit our Before & After Your Clean page. Q How often can I schedule recurring cleaning? MaidPro San Marcos doesn't require you to sign any contracts or lock into a specific cleaning schedule. Our PROs can come as often as you want! Our most popular recurring cleaning schedule is biweekly, but we can come monthly, weekly or even twice a week. It's up to you! Q What happens if my regular cleaning day falls on a holiday? If your regular cleaning falls on a holiday our PROs aren't working, we will reach out to you well in advance to reschedule your service. But, you can always proactively contact your local MaidPro to adjust your schedule to accommodate the holiday. And, if you're planning to host for the holiday, consider our pre- and post-holiday cleaning services to make sure your space is shining and you can enjoy your celebration! Q How much does a professional home cleaning cost? MaidPro San Marcos offers extraordinary value for the thorough cleaning you'll receive. While cost varies, our prices are very reasonable for a professional, customized service that includes trained PROs, background checks, insurance and the backing of a company that's cleaned homes for over 20 years! Q How long will it take to clean my home? The time it takes MaidPro PROs to clean your space depends on house size, bathrooms, pets and other factors. We customize our cleans to fit your needs — big or small! Q Is MaidPro pet-friendly? Not only are we animal lovers, but we also use only animal- (and kid-) safe products. That means you won't need to worry if your fluffy friend licks the floor after we're done mopping it. Q Do you offer after-hours or weekend commercial cleaning? We work hard to ensure our commercial cleaning service can fit into your business schedule. Contact us today to discuss your needs and your schedule. Q Do you offer contracts for ongoing commercial cleaning? While we don't have cleaning contracts, you can schedule a customized recurring commercial cleaning service that ensures your PROs are ready and available to clean your business when you need it. Q How far in advance should I book special event cleaning? The farther in advance of a special advance you can schedule your cleaning, the better. However, contacting us a few weeks prior to your event in less busy seasons is usually sufficient, while you may consider calling MaidPro San Marcos at least a month in advance for pre- and post-holiday cleaning services. Q Do you offer discounts for recurring services or referrals? MaidPro San Marcos runs special promotions from time to time, giving you discounts on your cleaning services. If you refer your friends, you receive a $25 Amazon e-gift card! Q What should I do if I want to give a house cleaning as a gift? MaidPro San Marcos offers gift cards. These can be purchased in a variety of denominations (minimum $25) and can be applied to any of our recurring or one-time cleaning services. Gift cards can be purchased on our website and will be emailed to the recipient within 24 hours of your purchase. Q What are your business hours? MaidPro San Marcos is open Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Q How do you ensure quality control and consistency? At MaidPro San Marcos, we aim to ensure that every clean is done the right way, every time. Occasionally, we spot-check the work our PROs complete for quality control.
