The Human Resource Consulting Group provides comprehensive HR Services with a personal touch. Our team of experts can provide everything your business needs from complete HR outsourcing, to individual services like policy and procedure reviews. We're here to become your full-time HR team, or supplement staff where needed. With our flexible services, state-of-the-art technology, and world-class client support, anything is possible. We recognize that the needs of each business we work with are different, and we take pride in getting to understand our clients individually to create tailored and cost-effective solutions for payroll, risk management, HR administration, workforce management, and employee benefits management. HRCG has become a premier provider of human resource services by partnering with business owners and entrepreneurs to manage their most important asset – people. Our primary differentiation is a high-touch service model coupled with technology and expertise. With HRCG, you get a team of certified HR professionals who provide proactive strategies that deliver positive outcomes for your business. Interested in learning more about our full suite of services? Schedule a consultation to speak with one of our HR Service professionals about how we can address your HR and compliance needs so that you can gain the freedom to focus on growing your business. Align HR strategy to objectives, and develop policies and procedures with continuing support. Download our Benefits of HR Outsourcing guide to see why thousands of small-to-mid-sized companies choose to outsource their HR functions to us and how it helps grow their businesses. Download our Services Overview to get an inside look at the services we provide. Our high-touch approach to HR and payroll will help propel your business to even greater heights. This 5-minute HR survey is designed to help you determine your strengths and areas of risk. After submitting the survey, an HRCG associate will reply to you with the results of your survey, and if you are at risk, we will indicate the associated area(s). Combined with our comprehensive HR Services, our cutting-edge HR software allows us to input, store, and report all types of employee data within one integrated system. Whether you want to set up alerts or pull compliance reports, isolved is the answer for all of your HR needs. The client faced a complex situation with an employee in a protected class. The HRCG team worked closely w... As open enrollment approaches, it is important for employers to start preparing. Consistent communication to emp... Employee benefits are an essential part of any compensation package. They can help attract candidates, imp... An HR Audit is a critical tool in helping organizations evaluate policies and procedures across the spectr... Connecticut has been a state at the forefront of sexual harassment prevention since 1992 with the passing of the... The EEOC and CHRO have both updated or released new posters in the past year. It's important for employers... Quiet quitting continues to be one of the biggest concerns for employers today. This popular term refers t... A comprehensive list of solutions within our People Cloud software. From HR to payroll, benefits, timekeeping, w... At HRCG, we make moving and managing your payroll easy. The Human Resource Consulting Group, LLC (HRCG) is a full-service HR outsourcing firm, payroll processor, compliance manager, time and attendance, and benefits administrator. HRCG frees companies from daily administrative paperwork so they can redeploy existing resources to more mission-critical issues, allowing for business growth. Mail: 117 Main Street, Seymour, CT 06483 Email: HRHelp@HR-Consulting-Group.com Phone: 203.881.1755 Fax: 203.881.3135
