Visual Studio Community A fully-featured, extensible, free IDE for creating modern applications for Android, iOS, Windows, as well as web applications and cloud services. Everything you need all in one place Lightweight and modular installation Craft your ideal development environment A brand-new workload-based installer optimizes your installation to make sure you have everything you need and nothing you don’t. Cloud-connected Stay up to date & in the know Code more efficiently with built-in and downloaded features Collaborate seamlessly without leaving the editor Write code, navigate, and fix issues Code with confidence in your language, find and fix code issues quickly, and refactor with ease. Debug, profile, and diagnose Debug to quickly find and fix bugs. Find and diagnose performance issues with the profiling tools. Collaborate on code with Git Use Git as the default source control experience in Visual Studio right out of the box. From the new Git menu, you can create or clone repositories from GitHub or Azure DevOps. Use the integrated Git tool windows to commit and push changes to your code, manage branches, sync with your remote repositories, and resolve merge conflicts. Build native, cross-platform desktop and mobile apps all in one framework. Create and deploy modern web applications Develop for the web with ASP.NET, Node.js, Python, and JavaScript. Use with powerful web frameworks such as AngularJS, jQuery, Bootstrap, Django, and Backbone.js. Turn the latest Visual Studio into a powerful Unity development environment. Build windows apps with WinUI 3 and the Windows App SDK, Windows Forms, Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF), or .NET MAUI. Exciting benefits Access to free tools and resources When you sign into Visual Studio Community, you get access to a broad set of free developer tools, selected Xamarin University courses on-demand, Pluralsight training, Azure credits, and more as part of Visual Studio Dev Essentials. Usage For more information, see the Visual Studio Community license terms. For individuals Any individual developer can use Visual Studio Community to create their own free or paid apps. For organizations An unlimited number of users within an organization can use Visual Studio Community for the following scenarios: in a classroom learning environment, for academic research, or for contributing to open source projects. For all other usage scenarios: In non-enterprise organizations, up to five users can use Visual Studio Community. In enterprise organizations (meaning those with >250 PCs or >$1 Million US Dollars in annual revenue), no use is permitted beyond the open source, academic research, and classroom learning environment scenarios described above.
