When looking for a software development agency to hire, you might not realize that there are actually three distinct types or why this is important. If you engage with the wrong type of dev agency, you could find that your real needs aren’t getting met during the development process. A lack of resources can lead to unfulfilled expectations, product release delays, and ultimately sunk costs. There are over 47 million software developers around the world as of early 2025. That might sound like a lot, but given current demand in the context of wildly fluctuating and expanding business needs, it’s a major challenge for employers to find and retain the right talent and digital solutions. However, don’t rush to fill your open slots using agency services before you truly understand the different types of software development agencies. Whether you need to create enterprise software or mobile applications for e-commerce functionalities, manage big data, or just secure custom web development for other uses, you'll need to be very selective about the development partner you choose. In this post, we explore the three different types of agencies, present their pros and cons for startups and other businesses, share an example of each, and offer a quick test to check which type you should engage with. Then we present a list of the top 50 software development agencies to consider. Rather than go straight into vetting different companies, your first step should be to decide which type of agency is the best fit for your needs. What services do software development agencies provide? The services that a software development agency will provide depends in large part on the type of agency it is. For example, some agencies will only offer software engineering services such as Laravel development and PHP development. They will expect you or someone from your team to handle all strategic product direction as well as project management. On the other hand, other agencies will not only provide technical development from the front-end to the backend but also business strategy. Some might offer UX design, UI design, and quality assurance management as well. It’s important to consider what you’re looking for now and how your company will likely grow in the future. For example, if a web application might be in your future, ask potential partners about past application development projects, web design experience, whether they work in both iOS and android, and what their UI/UX background is. Can this software development agency grow with the brand to offer new and innovative software solutions? How will this software development team assist in building better API security into your products and services? Can they help you achieve business goals safely and securely? If you need bespoke products, do they have case studies that demonstrate their versatility as a custom software development company? Can your in-house team handle the complexities of developing with user experience in mind? Will you find yourself outsourcing extra support if you don't have a scalable agency on this project? And finally, if you're in fintech, blockchain, healthcare, or other verticals that are heavily regulated, you'll need to ensure that your software development agency can help you meet regulatory requirements and stay compliant with applicable laws. Top 3 types of software development agencies Engaging with the wrong kind of agency can stress out your internal resources, hinder your launch timeline, and waste your investment. These are the 3 categories of software development agencies: Scalable, fully managed services Boutique development firm with limited capacity Staffing agency with no management Let’s take a look at them in more detail below so you can get a better understanding of where your best path forward might lie. 1. Scalable, fully managed services First up, let’s dive into the type of agency that offers end-to-end development at scale. What this type of software development agency offers This category of software development agencies is the most comprehensive and scalable. It typically includes everything required to launch and maintain quality software: Business strategy Product management Software engineering UX/UI QA management DevOps Agile Pros and cons When you choose a fully managed agency, you’re not burdened with coordinating resources and keeping everyone on track. However, you do hand over the reins with this type of agency, so make sure that you choose a company that has some sort of transition services in place, for when you want to manage the team. Example: DevSquad For example, DevSquad enables entrepreneurs and executives to take charge of product management and QA when they are ready. As a nearshore software development company, DevSquad offers fully managed software development teams who collaborate remotely from Utah and Latin America. Focusing primarily on SaaS application development, DevSquad handles product development at every step of the way: from strategic MVP roadmapping to engineering, user-friendly design, DevOps, and QA testing. DevSquad is not only scalable and fully managed, but also has systems in place to help you take the reins of product management and QA, when you’re ready to do so. 2. Boutique development firm with limited capacity A boutique dev firm is also fully managed, but not as scalable. What this type of software development agency offers Boutique development firms might also offer all of the above custom software development services in order to see a software project from start to finish. However, what is offered can vary widely depending on the agency’s internal skills. Achieving high-quality digital products can be hit or miss—or just costly. Pros and cons When working with a boutique agency, you can often get a great client experience, and rest assured that the project is being taken care of end to end. But that greatly depends on what the team can provide. These companies tend to have just a few employees and to not work with many contractors. There are often very long waitlists, as the CEOs of boutique agencies are looking for a nice business, but not interested in scaling. Because they manage everything for you, they may or may not have systems in place to help you take ownership of the software product when the time comes. Example: Ikayzo Based out of Honolulu, Ikayzo is a boutique agency that offers web app and mobile app development along with website design and development. The company has 11 full time employees, so it’s not as widely scalable. Boutiques like these can yield very skilled resources, but they might have long waitlists and they might lack the type of talent you need. 3. Staffing agency with no management Now, let’s look at agencies that help you staff developers. What this type of software development agency offers This type of agency offers either: Ongoing service fees for working with developers One-time finding fee for hiring developers In any case, they do not offer end-to-end software development. They don’t include UX design, QA management, or DevOps along with the software engineering resources. Most importantly, they don’t manage these resources for you. They just give you access to devs, and it’s up to you to produce quality software. Pros and cons Employment of software developers is expected to grow by 22% from 2019 to 2029, which is far faster than most other types of jobs. A staffing agency can help you find and hire the right software developers, but that’s only half the battle. Because a staffing agency doesn’t help you assemble and manage high-performing product teams, that burden falls on you and your internal resources. To craft beautiful software that works, you need not only software engineers, but also product managers, DevOps engineers, UX designers, and QA testers. Example: Toptal Toptal is a well-known software development agency, but as one of our clients pointed out to us, it’s more of a staffing agency than anything else. Toptal does not offer end-to-end software development services, leaving it up to their clients to handle business strategy, product management, QA management, and more. This model could be an okay fit for you if you have world-class product managers on staff, but if you don’t, you run the risk of losing your entire investment in software engineering because you lack the other skills required to support, launch, and maintain their work. 5 common business models employed by software development agencies Understanding the business model of a software development agency is just as important as understanding its type. While the agency type tells you what kind of service model to expect (fully managed, boutique, or staffing), the business model tells you how that service is structured and delivered. Here's a breakdown of the five most common business models used across the industry: 1. Dedicated team (fully managed) The agency provides a complete team—product strategist, engineers, QA, DevOps, UX/UI—and handles every stage of the software lifecycle. This approach is hands-off for clients and focused on building and launching full products, not just code. Best for: Companies without in-house product or engineering leadership Client involvement: Low to moderate Common with: Scalable, fully managed agencies like DevSquad and Intellias 2. Staff augmentation The agency supplies one or more developers who plug into your internal team. You remain responsible for managing the project, setting priorities, and coordinating other roles like design, QA, and DevOps. Best for: Teams with strong internal product management and technical leadership Client involvement: High Common with: Staffing agencies like Toptal, YouTeam, and Flexiple 3. Fixed-price projects Under a fixed-price model, the agency and client agree upfront on a detailed scope of work, timeline, and cost. It works best when requirements won’t change—though in reality, product needs often evolve mid-project. Changes typically trigger added fees or delays. Best for: Simple, well-scoped projects or MVPs Client involvement: Low during execution, but risky if the scope needs to shift Common with: Some boutique development firms 4. Time & materials (T&M) Here, you’re billed based on actual time and effort. This model is often used in agile environments, where priorities shift and roadmaps are refined over time. It allows room to adapt but requires close collaboration and mutual trust between client and agency. Best for: Long-term, iterative development Client involvement: Moderate to high Common with: Both boutique and scalable agencies 5. Product strategy consulting (upfront discovery model) Before any development starts, the agency leads a strategic discovery phase—validating your product idea, prototyping user flows, and building a roadmap. This model sets you up for a smarter build and reduces risk of building the wrong product. Best for: Founders validating new ideas or teams modernizing legacy software Client involvement: High at the start, then lower after strategy is defined Common with: Strategy-first firms like DevSquad and ImaginaryCloud How to choose the right type of software development agency for your needs Now that you’ve seen some of the top software development agencies, you might be wondering which one is right for you. Rather than go straight into vetting different companies, your first step should be to decide which type of agency is the best fit for your needs. In order to get clear on which category is right for you, answer the following questions: Do you need guidance in feature prioritization and product strategy? If you know you need strategic guidance in business processes and making the right product decisions, then you’ll want to work with either a scalable, fully managed agency, or with a boutique agency. A staffing company will not be able to provide this. Do you need other resources besides software engineers? If you need DevOps engineers, UX designers, and QA managers in addition to software developers, your money will be better spent at a fully managed agency or boutique agency. A staffing company will provide you with full time hires, and you may not have full time work for all of these resources. Do you have the capability and capacity to manage all required resources? If you have an inhouse product manager who can pull all of these resources together to create a product your end-user will love, then you can probably do fine with a staffing agency. If not, work with a fully managed agency that provides product management. If you can’t own product management now, do you hope to inhouse this in the future? Maybe you’re not able to take the reins of product management now, but you’d like to in the future. In that case, make sure you’re working with a fully managed agency that makes the transition smooth for you. Ultimately, before you choose the right agency, you first need to get clear on the type of agency you’re looking for. This will help ensure that your investment is a success. Top 50 software development companies to consider Now that you know the main types of software development agencies (and how to choose the right one), you're armed with lots of knowledge to help you vet companies. Check out our list of the top 50 software dev companies to consider. For each one, we offer the category. 1. DevSquad Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team and product strategy consulting Specialties : Dedicated development squad SaaS product strategy and development Government software development Legacy app modernization Laravel development Project takeovers Internal software development Learn why we love combining Laravel and Vue.js for product development. 2. Saritasa Agency type: Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team and product strategy consulting Specialties : Mobile development Web development Project takeovers IoT solutions AR/VR development 3. BairesDev Agency type : Staffing agency with no management Business models followed: Staff Augmentation Specialties : Custom software development QA and testing AI and data science Mobile app development UX/UI design 4. 6Sense Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team and staff augmentation Specialties : Dedicated software development UI/UX design Node JS and React development 5. Aalpha Information Systems Agency type: Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Time & materials, fixed-price projects and dedicated team Aalpha Information Systems is a global software development company offering end-to-end development services tailored to enterprise and startup needs. Headquartered in India with a worldwide presence, Aalpha specializes in delivering high-quality digital solutions across industries such as healthcare, finance, retail, and logistics. Their services include custom software development, IT consulting, product modernization, and dedicated team extensions. With a team of experienced professionals, Aalpha ensures scalable, flexible solutions that empower businesses to solve complex challenges efficiently. Specialties: Custom software development Enterprise-grade solutions AI, big data, and blockchain development IT consulting and product modernization 6. Konrad Agency type: Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team and product strategy consulting Specialties : Product strategy Mobile app development Consumer tech Web portal development 7. GorrillaLogic Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team Specialties : Enterprise web app development Backend development Mobile app development UI/UX design Clouds and DevOps services 8. Godel Technologies Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team Godel Technologies partners with businesses to deliver high-quality software solutions, focusing on collaboration and agile methodologies. Headquartered in the UK, the company supports clients in industries like fintech, retail, and logistics with scalable, end-to-end development services. Godel’s dedicated teams help businesses innovate and adapt to evolving market demands. Specialties: Custom software development Agile product development Cloud-based solutions Application modernization QA and testing services 9. Honeycomb Software Agency type : Boutique development firm with limited capacity Business models followed: Dedicated team, product strategy consulting and staff augmentation Specialties : Custom development services UI/UX design services Software testing Dedicated software development team 10. Intellias Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team and product strategy consulting Specialties : Software engineering Cybersecurity services IoT development AI and ML Data and analytics Experience design 11. Tatvasoft Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team, staff augmentation, and fixed-price projects Specialties : Custom software development Dedicated development team Ecommerce development Mobile app development 12. CloudDevs Agency type : Staffing agency with no management Business models followed: Staff Augmentation create a high-performing team structure so you can go to market quickly. So make sure to only hire devs if you're prepared to manage them like a pro. Specialties : Developers on demand Team augmentation Latin American developers React developers Ruby developers Laravel developers 13. Ryaktive Agency type : Boutique development firm with limited capacity Business models followed: Dedicated team Specialties : Startup development Customer experience engineering Data science UI/UX design 14. ScienceSoft Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team, fixed-price projects, time & materials, product strategy consulting Specialties : Software development Web development Mobile app development Managed IT services IT outsourcing 15. Seattle Software Developers Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team, fixed-priced projects Founded 30 years ago, Seattle Software Developers is a boutique agency that brings a wealth of experience. Many of their developers have been poached from Google and Microsoft. The company's core specialization is in enterprise software development. They're a good fit for large, complex projects. And, unlike many on our list, they develop within blockchain and crypto. Specialties : Enterprise software development AI software development Blockchain App development Crypto development 16. Sigma Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team Specialties : Website development Custom software development IT consulting Managed IT services AR/VR development IoT development Cybersecurity services 17. Toptal Agency type : Staffing agency with no management Business models followed: Staff Augmentation and dedicated team Specialties : Freelance software developers Freelance UI/UX designers Freelance product managers Freelance QA testers 18. Turing Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team and staff augmentation Specialties: Remote team building Full-cycle software development AI and machine learning solutions Cloud and DevOps services Enterprise software development 19. Flexiple Agency type : Staffing agency with no management Business models followed: Staff Augmentation Specialties : Full-time and contract developer hires AI-driven recommendations Mobile app development AI development Web app development 20. Arc Agency type : Staffing agency with no management Business models followed: Staff Augmentation Specialties : Full-time and contract developer hires Angular developers Mobile app developers React developers Node.js developers 21. Upwork Agency type : Staffing agency with no management Business models followed: Staff Augmentation Specialties : Software development consultants UI/UX designers Ecommerce developers Mobile app developers QA testers Product managers 22. Capitol Tech Solutions Agency type : Boutique development firm with limited capacity Business models followed: Dedicated team, fixed-price projects, time & materials, product strategy consulting Specialties : Custom software development PHP development Angular development Cybersecurity Graphic design Online advertising 23. ShineForth Agency type : Boutique development firm with limited capacity Business models followed: Dedicated team Specialties : Web application development Website development API and systems integrations Custom software development Ecommerce development 24. Integrity First Technology Services Agency type : Boutique development firm with limited capacity Business models followed: Dedicated team Integrity First Technology Services is based in Fresno, California and primarily helps agricultural businesses with their software and technology needs. They provide outdoor wireless, custom ag management software development, software recommendations, IoT deployments, and network security services to help ag businesses improve operational efficiency. Specialties : IT consulting IT managed services Software development Network security Cloud services 25. IntellectSoft Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team and staff augmentation Specialties : Dedicated development teams Enterprise software development Mobile app development IT consulting 26. Sofomo Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team and staff augmentation Specialties : Fully managed development team Ruby development Angular development Node development React development 27. Netguru Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team, staff augmentation, and product strategy consulting Specialties : Dedicated development teams Staff augmentation Rapid prototyping User testing 28. LeewayHertz Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team and staff augmentation Specialties : AI software development Generative AI development Generative AI products and APIs AI consulting Machine learning 29. ImaginaryCloud Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team and product strategy consulting Specialties : Digital transformation Product design Minimum viable product development Software development Digital acceleration 30. Ellow Agency type : Staffing agency with no management Business models followed: Staff Augmentation Specialties : Vetted freelance developers Senior engineers React development JavaScript development DevOps engineering 31. Remotebase Agency type : Staffing agency with no management Business models followed: Staff Augmentation Specialties : Developers on demand Web development Ruby on Rails development Angular development Node.js development 32. Curotec Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team and staff augmentation Specialties : Dedicated development team Staff augmentation Web app development Mobile app development Ecommerce development 33. 10 Pearls Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team and staff augmentation Specialties : Software development Mobile app development UI/UX design DevOps engineering Quality assurance AI consulting 34. Simform Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team Specialties : Product engineering Performance testing Digital experience design Application modernization Cloud-native development BI and data engineering AI/ML engineering 35. Kanda Software Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team Specialties : Custom software development Digital transformation Mobile application development Quality assurance testing Big data services 36. Level Up Development Agency type : Boutique firm with limited capacity Business models followed: Dedicated team Specialties : Generative AI solutions Custom mobile application development Custom web application development Healthcare software development Application modernization 37. Taazaa Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team and staff augmentation Specialties : SaaS product development Enterprise software development DevOps engineering Data engineering Web development AI development 38. Software Verde Agency type : Boutique firm with limited capacity Business models followed: Dedicated team and product strategy consulting Specialties : API development Blockchain development Web development Mobile app development AR development 39. Bitcot Agency type : Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team Specialties : Web development Mobile app development Enterprise software development Automation AI 40. CQUELLE Agency type : Boutique firm with limited capacity Business models followed: Dedicated team Specialties : Solution design Full-stack software development Product development 41. DeepInspire Agency type : Boutique firm with limited capacity Business models followed: Dedicated team and product strategy consulting Specialties : IT consulting Product development Digital transformation MVP development AI development 42. Andersen Agency type: Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team, staff augmentation and product strategy consulting Andersen is a globally recognized software development company that provides comprehensive, end-to-end development services. Headquartered in Europe with a strong global presence, Andersen excels in delivering enterprise-grade solutions across various industries, including healthcare, finance, and retail. Their service offerings span custom software development, IT consulting, and product modernization. With a team of over 3,500 specialists, Andersen ensures scalability and flexibility, helping businesses tackle complex challenges with robust digital solutions. Specialties: Custom software development Enterprise-grade solutions AI, big data, and blockchain development IT consulting and product modernization 43. CodeBright Agency type: Boutique development firm with limited capacity Business models followed: Dedicated team and product strategy consulting Specializing in building innovative digital products, CodeBright works with startups and small to medium-sized businesses to transform ideas into functional software. Based in the United States, the company focuses on developing MVPs and scalable applications that address real-world problems. Their client-centric approach and emphasis on innovation have helped numerous businesses bring their visions to life. Specialties: MVP development Mobile app development Web application development Custom software solutions API AI 44. PixelCrayons Agency type: Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team, staff augmentation, fixed price and time & materials Known for its comprehensive IT solutions, PixelCrayons provides custom software, mobile, and web development services to clients across industries. Based in India, the company utilizes cutting-edge technologies and agile methodologies to deliver scalable and reliable digital products. Their approach ensures businesses achieve growth and innovation through tailored solutions. Specialties: Web and mobile application development Design to code AI and machine learning development Blockchain development IT consulting and strategy 45. DevsData Agency type: Staffing agency with no management Business models followed: Staff augmentation DevsData connects businesses with highly vetted engineers and tech specialists to build and scale their teams quickly. Based in Europe, the agency emphasizes niche technologies such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, and blockchain development. DevsData’s thorough vetting process helps clients find top-tier talent for long-term or short-term projects, giving companies the flexibility to adapt to evolving needs without managing an in-house team. Specialties: AI and machine learning talent sourcing Blockchain development expertise Remote staffing for tech teams Full-stack developer recruitment 46. Itransition Agency type: Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team and staff augmentation With decades of experience, Itransition delivers comprehensive software solutions to enterprises and SMBs worldwide. Headquartered in the United States, the company specializes in custom software development, enterprise application modernization, and IT consulting. Their expertise spans multiple industries, enabling them to address complex challenges and create scalable, high-performing applications. Specialties: Custom software development Enterprise application modernization IT consulting Cloud solutions Data analytics and BI implementation 47. Bacancy Technology Agency type: Staffing agency with no management Business models followed: Dedicated team and Staff augmentation Bacancy Technology provides businesses with access to skilled developers for flexible, on-demand staffing. With a strong presence across multiple regions, the company supports clients in scaling their tech teams efficiently. Bacancy specializes in a wide range of technologies, offering expertise for both short-term needs and long-term development projects without the complexity of managing an in-house team. Specialties: Remote development teams Full-stack development Agile development practices Cloud and DevOps solutions Custom software engineering AI and ML solutions 48. DockYard Agency type: Boutique development firm with limited capacity Business models followed: Dedicated team and product strategy consulting Recognized for its expertise in crafting bespoke digital solutions, DockYard collaborates with startups and enterprises to deliver highly customized software. The firm, based in the United States, focuses on innovative frameworks such as Ember.js and Elixir, building scalable and user-focused applications. DockYard is renowned for its dedication to design and development excellence. Specialties: Custom web application development Ember.js and Elixir expertise UX and UI design Digital product strategy Scalable software architecture 49. Hidden Brains Agency type: Scalable, fully managed services Business models followed: Dedicated team, fixed price and time & material Hidden Brains delivers comprehensive IT solutions, catering to businesses of all sizes with a global presence. The company specializes in web and mobile app development, leveraging emerging technologies to create innovative and scalable products. Their focus on end-to-end development ensures businesses receive customized solutions that align with their objectives. Specialties: Web and mobile application development IoT solutions Blockchain and AI development Cloud integration Enterprise software development 50. Brainhub Agency type: Boutique development firm with limited capacity Business models followed: Dedicated team Brainhub focuses on helping startups and businesses build high-quality web and mobile applications. With expertise in JavaScript frameworks like Node.js and React, the company delivers tailored solutions for digital transformation. Their hands-on approach and dedication to client success make Brainhub a trusted partner for innovative projects. Specialties: JavaScript development (Node.js, React) Mobile app development Digital product design MVP development Agile development practices Frequently asked questions about software development agencies Want to know more about outsourcing your project to a software development firm? Check out these FAQs and helpful responses. Which company is best for software development? The top companies for software development are: DevSquad BairesDev Arc Toptal Flexiple YouTeam GorrilaLogic VironIT Intellias CloudDevs What do software agencies do? Software agencies provide fully managed, end-to-end software development services. This often includes an in-depth discovery process, user journey mapping, information architecture, prototyping and UX design, user testing, product management, backend and frontend development, DevOps and deployment, and QA testing. When should companies outsource software development? You should outsource development if you don’t have the internal resources for hiring and managing a development team and securely deploying the software to the cloud. You might also choose to outsource development if you’re behind on hiring and need to launch a software product or feature faster than you could do so internally. Many companies also choose to outsource development as a way of reducing costs and keeping their investment to a set maximum. How much does software development cost? Depending on complexity, software development typically costs $70,000 to $300,000 for the initial launch of the new application. Then, you can expect to pay between $10,000 and $40,000 for monthly maintenance and the development of new features. The more robust your roadmap, the more you’ll pay for updates. Be wary of software agencies that quote large sums of money for the initial development. That’s a sign that they’re not really developing a minimum viable product (MVP) and are making too many assumptions about the initial features you need for your launch. Agencies that specialize in product strategy, should pitch you a Design Sprint or prototyping process. They should also quote your initial project at under $100,000. This shows that they’re building a real MVP. You can always build more features after you’ve launched and started collecting revenue. What should you look for when outsourcing software development? To feel confident when choosing a software development agency, make sure that they offer prototyping and real user testing to validate your idea, user journey mapping to ensure that user requirements are met, MVP strategy, long-term roadmaping, information architecture, and technology assessments and recommendations. The company should also offer product management, DevOps, cybersecurity, and quality assurance testing so that every aspect of software development and deployment is well taken care of. To build the best product, you need the best strategists, product managers, UX designers, and engineers. Need a high-performing software team? Check out DevSquad.
