What Are the Latest Scientific Trends in Psychiatry and How Will They Impact Care? Scientific advancements and technology are giving psychiatrists increasing abilities to deliver treatments tailored to individual needs. Some of these include advancements in the areas of genetics, biomarkers and imaging. “Advances in genetics, biomarkers, electrophysiology, imaging, and other areas offer the promise of delivering mental health care that is customized for each patient—from diagnosis to treatment,” Alexander B. Niculescu, M.D., Ph.D. (writing in a recent special section in Psychiatric News) Genetics Researchers identify and analyze DNA variations that may increase a person’s risk for specific disorders. Polygenic risk scores (PRS) combine vast amounts of genetic data to better understand individual risk for specific conditions such as depression or schizophrenia. Genetics can allow for early screening of risks but is limited in that this information does not account for environmental factors or how genes interact with life experiences. Biomarkers Biomarkers are measurable indicators of biological processes, found in blood or saliva, for example, that are associated with mental health conditions. Biomarkers reflect changes in the body including the influences of environmental factors like stress and trauma, and response to treatment. Examples include inflammatory markers like C-reactive protein and stress hormones like cortisol. While biomarkers have the advantage of reflecting environmental effects and treatments, they are generally only evident after the mental disorder has appeared, Niculescu notes. Brain Imaging A variety of brain imaging technologies like MRI, CT, and PET scans are helping advance understanding of psychiatric disorders. Researchers are working to identify brain responses that may indicate a specific mental disorder or the likelihood of a beneficial treatment response. However, currently “the results reported in neuroimaging studies can tell us about a group but cannot reliably tell us about an individual within that group.” (Vogel and Black, 2024) Digital Tools Digital health tools continue to expand in many areas of mental health care. Mobile apps, for example, can be used to monitor mood patterns by collecting self-reported data and deliver therapeutic interventions. Wearable technologies, like smartwatches, can provide insights by monitoring and tracking sleep, physical activity, heart rate, etc. (Read more about digital therapeutics (apps for therapy) in a recent APA blog post.) AI Artificial intelligence (AI) is changing many aspects of our lives, especially generative AI, which encompasses a broad range of AI techniques to generate new data (text, images, etc.) based on learning from patterns in vast amounts of data. Generative AI offers many opportunities of benefits across the mental health care field in areas such as clinical practice, treatment, and research and professional development. For example, it can create personalized interventions and exercises, provide real-time feedback and support skill-building and affordable, accessible treatments such as use of virtual reality. Read more about generative AI in psychiatry in a recent Psychiatric News Special Section. Niculescu is optimistic about the use of these new technologies and encourages mental health professionals to become familiar with these tools and to integrate them into treatment in order to “deliver care that is precise, personalized, preventive and participatory.” References Niculescu, A.B. 2024. Precise, Personalized and Preventive Psychiatry. Psychiatric News. Special Report. December 2024. Vogel AC, Black KJ. Brain Imaging in Routine Psychiatric Practice. Mo Med. 2024 Jan-Feb;121(1):37-43.
