How the Virginia Tech AI & Machine Learning Bootcamp Works The Virginia Tech AI and Machine Learning Bootcamp is designed for students to pursue high-quality tech education while continuing to balance work or other commitments. Our program provides you with the flexibility to fit career development into your life. Bootcamp classes combine live online instruction with group and independent active learning challenges—all facilitated by industry-experienced professionals. All classes are held Monday, Wednesday, and Thursday. 8:00pm - 11:00pm ET In addition to classroom lessons, part-time students can anticipate spending about 20+ hours studying and working on outside assignments each week. Class time options are subject to change. To see available class times for your cohort of choice, complete your application or schedule a call with a student advisor. Tuition Pay tuition upfront, all at once, and save $3,000 on tuition . Apply today! Tuition: $10,995 Institutional Discount: -$3,000 Total Tuition w/ Discount: $7,995 Pay in regular installment amounts and save $3,000 on tuition. A refundable deposit of $500, applied to your total tuition, is due at the time of enrollment. The deposit is refundable up until the end of the first week of classes. No credit check required 0% interest Tuition: $10,995 Institutional Discount: -$3,000 Total Tuition w/ Discount: $7,995 Pay for your bootcamp with a personal loan through an external lending provider. Your monthly amount may vary based on the approved interest rate. Tuition: $10,995 Institutional Discount: -$3,000 Total Tuition w/ Discount: $7,995 Learn more about payment options when you apply online and connect with a Student Advisor. AI & Machine Learning Job and Salaries As the demand for data professionals is projected to increase over 36% through 2033—much faster than the average growth rate of all professions—AI & machine learning specialized roles are a huge contributing factor to the expansion of the data science industry (Bureau of Labor Statistics). In the field of AI and machine learning, there are many career paths to follow based on your skills, interests, and experience. Some available jobs include Machine Learning Engineer, Data Scientist - AI, Data Scientist - Predictive Analysis, and AI Engineer. When you opt into the Virginia Tech AI & Machine Learning Bootcamp career coaching services, you’ll receive the guidance you need to navigate the industry in search of specialized artificial intelligence engineering roles. AI/Machine Learning Engineers in Virginia earn an average entry-level salary of $156,274, Glassdoor, offering a significant return on investment for anyone pursuing a specialized education in AI and machine learning. Big Return on Your Investment Virginia Tech AI & Machine Learning Curriculum The Virginia Tech Bootcamp is designed to help students of all professional backgrounds acquire relevant, in-demand skills and knowledge of artificial intelligence concepts. Over 26 weeks part-time, students will learn practical and theoretical machine learning concepts using real-world tools—graduating with the specialized knowledge needed to apply AI fundamentals in a current role or pursue a new career in the data field. Our curriculum is tailored to meet the needs of students looking to build concentrated knowledge and experience in AI and machine learning. Students learn through a mix of lectures, labs, and projects to cover each topic and technology. Additionally, students are supported by Fullstack Academy’s active learning method, which enables students to build skills and practically apply them at the same time—both independently and as part of a team. Develop and execute Python programs for real-world applications. Learn essential Python data types and file-handling techniques. Learn and apply decision control structures, looping mechanisms, and argument types in Python. Utilize Python libraries for data science and perform advanced data manipulation and analysis with NumPy and Pandas. Conduct hypothesis testing and statistical analysis, and implement data cleaning, transformation, and feature engineering techniques. Understand and differentiate types of machine learning models. Apply supervised learning techniques to classification and regression problems. Develop and train machine learning models using Python packages. Evaluate and validate machine learning models using performance metrics. Apply machine learning models to real-world use cases. Design and implement deep neural networks for image and text classification. Apply advanced optimization algorithms to enhance model training. Utilize transfer learning and object detection based on real-world use cases. Perform hyperparameter tuning and regularization for improved model accuracy. Develop sequential models for time-series and video data classification. Preprocess and transform text data for NLP tasks. Build and implement NLP models for text classification and sentiment analysis. Utilize word embeddings to enhance text representation in NLP models. Develop and evaluate machine translation systems. Implement advanced NLP models using sequence modeling and attention mechanisms. Design and implement generative AI models for various applications. Understand and apply attention mechanisms in transformer models. Develop and fine-tune large language models (LLMs) for enhanced performance. Apply the LangChain framework to build generative AI applications. Optimize and evaluate generative AI models using hyperparameter tuning and benchmarking techniques. Enhance your skills by applying various AI & machine learning techniques to solve real-world challenges, using publicly available data sets. AI & Machine Learning Tools & Technologies Throughout this program, you’ll learn to use a range of digital tools required to develop practical, hands-on AI and machine learning skills. Some of the tools you’ll build proficiency in include: AI & Machine Learning Bootcamp Projects In this program, you’ll have opportunities to apply your skills in industry-relevant projects to solve real-world challenges. These projects will help validate your AI and machine learning skills and expertise in tools and technologies, plus can be featured in your professional portfolio to showcase to potential employers. Here are some examples of the projects: This project requires you to develop a machine-learning model to accurately predict customer satisfaction levels. You’ll analyze a dataset of customer interactions, purchase behavior, demographic information, and product feedback, and identify key factors influencing customer satisfaction. You’ll design some features of an e-commerce application. This includes the backend implementation of the website, sign-in authentication, and error-handling features. You’ll investigate the factors that influence house prices and identify potential growth opportunities in the market. A retail company wants to analyze its sales data to make better investment decisions. You’ll help the company identify the geographies generating the highest revenues, analyze purchasing behavior and data, and assist with data-driven decisions for the coming year. A company specializing in movie recommendations wants to integrate a recommender system based on collaborative filtering. This project requires you to construct and assess a recommender system, employing memory-based and collaborative filtering methods. A news aggregator platform collects articles from various sources. To improve the user experience, you’ll develop a text classification model using Recurrent Neural Networks, which will automatically categorize articles into predefined topics or categories. Capstone Project AI & Machine Learning Bootcamp Testimonials Landing an AI & Machine Learning Job Virginia Tech students will gain valuable insight into how to build a successful career in the field of data science and AI from day one of the course. Throughout the bootcamp experience, students may access live workshops, office hours, and on-demand content to help build a job search toolkit—which includes an optimized resume and LinkedIn profile. Following successful completion of the Career Success Program, students can choose to opt into additional coaching support and receive guidance for up to a year following graduation in: Growing your professional network Resume and LinkedIn profile optimization Interview and assessment prep Salary negotiation workshops And much more! You’ll also graduate from the program with a portfolio of work that demonstrates your ability to solve real business problems for real companies. Fullstack Academy grads have landed jobs with some of the world's leading companies. Virginia Tech Bootcamps are powered by Fullstack Academy. The companies listed above have hired Fullstack Academy graduates. FAQs Yes, the Virginia Tech AI & Machine Learning Bootcamp helps prepare professionals and recent graduates with skills and experience in these evolving technologies. To be considered for admission, applicants must meet the following eligibility criteria: Be at least 18 years or older Have earned a high school diploma or GED equivalent Have prior knowledge or experience in programming and/or intermediate mathematics (including linear algebra, probability, and statistics) While not required for admission, applicants are recommended to have at least 2+ years of formal work experience. Not sure how your skills stack up? Contact a student advisor to talk through all your options. The bootcamp is a highly computational, programming-based tech training program that teaches artificial intelligence and the machine learning tools, technologies, and processes that support its development. You will learn how to create and deploy this technology toward a range of applications. Your time with our career success team will include everything from workshops to one-on-one office hours to phone chats before big interviews. Alumni will also have access to a job board and have the opportunity to be connected with companies and organizations in our Employer Partner Network that are actively hiring. You do need to provide your own computer for the bootcamp. It can be a laptop or desktop as long as it meets the minimum machine specifications of your chosen program. Because the bootcamp is live online, you are required to have a webcam and microphone to participate in class. Ensuring you have a computer that meets the requirements for your course is an essential part of setting yourself up for success in our bootcamps. For full computer requirements for each of our program offerings, visit our Online Learning page. Designed for rapid skill acquisition, the Virginia Tech AI & Machine Learning Bootcamp helps you gain a deeper understanding of core to advanced field principles and tools while providing you with opportunities for hands-on experience. Unlike some AI courses, this bootcamp incorporates machine learning online courses with AI training to deliver a well-rounded education. Topics covered in the AI and ML courses include: Programming Refresher Applied Data Science with Python Machine Learning Deep Learning Natural Language Processing Essentials and Applications of Generative AI The Virginia Tech AI & Machine Learning Bootcamp is a 26-week part-time program that will provide you with a comprehensive understanding of AI and machine learning course concepts using real-world tools, and prepare you to qualify for a range of data roles, including AI roles. Tuition for the Virginia Tech AI & Machine Learning Bootcamp is as low as $7,995. Multiple discounts and payment options are available. Bootcamp tuition is an investment in your future, so take the first step toward hands-on training in AI, machine learning, deep learning, career support, and more. Apply now! Anticipate a rigorous but rewarding experience in the Virginia Tech AI & Machine Learning Bootcamp. You can anticipate: A fast-paced curriculum covering in-demand technologies and tools. Practical skill-building, not just theory. Real-world projects and the opportunity to build a portfolio to show to potential employers. A collaborative environment, where you'll be supported by industry-experienced instructors, mentors, and peers. Career support including resume workshops, interview prep, and more. These steps will guide you through the application process for the Virginia Tech AI & Machine Learning Bootcamp! Here’s how to apply: Complete the No-Risk, No-Cost Online Application: Complete and submit the online application form. Schedule a Call with a Student Advisor: Right after applying, schedule a call with our student advisor to understand your eligibility for the AI & Machine Learning Bootcamp. Receive Your Entrance Decision: You'll receive your entrance decision within 24 hours. Virginia Tech Bootcamps Admissions Process The Virginia Tech AI & Machine Learning Bootcamp is designed for professionals and recent graduates looking to grow their skills in this evolving field. Required Qualifications Are at least 18 years or older Have earned a high school diploma or GED equivalent Have prior knowledge or experience in programming and/or intermediate mathematics (including linear algebra, probability and statistics) Recommended Qualifications While not required for admission, at least 2+ years of formal work experience is recommended Not sure how your skills stack up? Schedule a call with a Student Advisor to learn more about eligibility for the AI & Machine Learning Bootcamp. Ready to get started? Apply to study at the Virginia Tech AI & Machine Learning Bootcamp! Here’s how: Fill out our online application form Schedule a call with your Student Advisor Receive an entrance decision
