Free Online Certificate in Artificial Intelligence and Career Empowerment A free online certificate that can aid working professionals transition to new jobs and career opportunities in the private sector and in AI-related opportunities with a business focus. Offered by the Center for Artificial Intelligence in Business and the Executive Education Office at the Robert H. Smith School of Business, University of Maryland. For questions about the course or assistance with registration and enrollment, please email rhsmith-execed@umd.edu or reference these account creation instructions . Program Description This transformative course is designed for early to mid-career professionals looking to move to the private sector, or for a change in direction. The course provides an overview of Artificial Intelligence, how it is transforming functional areas in the private sector and what career opportunities may emerge during this time. Participants will explore how AI is transforming various industries, examining real-world applications and the broader implications of AI adoption in fields such as marketing, finance, healthcare, and technology. Through lectures from professors and interviews with industry experts, they will gain a deeper understanding of how AI is driving innovation, shaping job markets, and creating new opportunities across different sectors. Given the global uncertainties in economies and the labor market, we also provide useful pointers for career empowerment, including how to navigate job opportunities, explore startups, negotiate well during challenging times and position yourself for AI-related opportunities in various sectors. This course blends theoretical knowledge with practical insights, ensuring participants not only understand AI concepts but also learn how to apply them effectively in their careers. Participants will receive a completely free certificate in “Artificial Intelligence and Career Empowerment” from the Robert H. Smith School of Business at the University of Maryland. Who Should Enroll? Professionals in search of new opportunities. Professionals looking to pivot into AI-enabled roles. Individuals exploring independent consulting or entrepreneurship. Experts seeking to market their knowledge as a service. Anyone interested in understanding AI's role in business and career transformation. Outcomes By the end of this course, participants will: Establish foundational AI literacy and understand why and how AI solutions are being built in business. Explore how AI is shaping career opportunities across functional areas in business. Gain actionable strategies for career transition, job searching, and consulting. Network with industry experts, HR professionals, and AI practitioners. Part One: Artificial Intelligence in Business Module 1: AI Literacy, Capabilities, Building AI Systems Balaji Padmanabhan What is AI and why are businesses excited about it? Modern AI: The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly Building Modern AI Systems – Overview of how firms are approaching licensing specific tools or building their own Applications in business and what’s up ahead in the near-term Module 2: The Marketing Revolution Bobby Zhou and Yogesh Joshi Modern Marketing: What is it today? AI & Marketing: Examples and lessons Using vs building AI solutions in marketing Lessons from business through interviews with marketing leaders Module 3: AI and Organizations Anil Gupta AI’s impact on labor and jobs How AI is impacting the act of recruiting and managing talent Where the opportunities are today for AI within the broader umbrella of M&O Using vs Building AI Solutions Module 4: AI and Supply Chain Suresh Acharya and Humberto Coronado Overview of the modern supply chain What some of the key issues today are when it comes to companies managing their operations and supply chain processes How AI is impacting (or can impact) these processes Using vs Building AI Solutions Module 5: Responsible AI Margrét Bjarnadóttir Overview of fairness ideas in machine learning and AI What Responsible AI principles are looking to achieve Examples in healthcare and other contexts What do people who are using or building AI systems need to keep in mind in order to build responsible AI systems? Module 6: AI in Financial Services (Finance/Acc) Tania Babina AI’s impact and use-cases in the financial sector Examples of Generative AI in wealth management or other areas Where the opportunities are today for AI within the broader umbrella of financial services Using vs building AI Solutions Part Two: Career Empowerment Module 7: Being your own startup Oliver Schlake Transitioning into independent consulting Building your own brand and exploring entrepreneurial opportunities Examples of such transitions Module 8: Negotiating from a Position of Weakness Rellie Derfler-Rozin and Vijaya Venkatramani The importance of learning how to negotiate Negotiating from a position of weakness: do’s and don'ts Negotiating in job search contexts Module 9: Job Search in the Age of AI Kim Rice DeGross Nuances of job searches and career strategies in the modern era What to do when machines are processing your resume Interviews with HR leaders on best practices Module 10: Course wrap-up and the road ahead Balaji Padmanabhan & faculty Smith Faculty Suresh Acharya Tania Babina Margrét Bjarnadóttir Humberto C. Coronado Kim Rice DeGross Rellie Derfler-Rozin Anil K. Gupta Yogesh Joshi Balaji Padmanabhan Oliver Schlake Vijaya Venkataramani Bo "Bobby" Zhou
