Some of the Best Reading Subscriptions (and My Favorite One is Free!) Reading is literally my second favorite hobby (first favorite is writing, of course!), so obviously I like to try all kinds of reading subscriptions. Below you’ll find some of the best reading subscriptions (and my favorites). I’ll talk about pricing, the value you get in the subscription, and my number one favorite subscription ever (did I mention that it’s FREE??). Book of the Month This is the one subscription that I really splurge on. Book of the Month is a fun and creative book box that gives you about six books to choose from and one hard copy a month is shipped to you. I found some of my favorite titles by having this subscription that I never would have discovered otherwise. This is definitely the most expensive subscription on my list, but you’re legit getting a book and not a digital version. Plans range from $12.50-$17.99 a month depending on which one you choose, but your first book is $9.99 with a commitment to continue the next month after that. It does seem super expensive, but honestly this was one of my favorite subscriptions ever and you get a package in the mail every month (which we all know is super satisfying). Audible This is probably the subscription I use the most (besides my favorite one, which is the last one on this list). Audible is one of my favorites ever. However, I won’t comment too much on the price because normally, I ask for this for Christmas from my husband 😂. Plus is $7.95 a month just to use Audible’s Plus Catalog and Premium Plus is that plus one credit to use for any audiobook for $14.95 a month, which is most of the popular ones anyway. So, I always ask for gift credits (usually it’s 12 for the year). This way, I can get any books that aren’t included in the free reading apps I use (last one on the list guys, it’s a winner!!). Audible is super easy to use, it doesn’t glitch out, and with credits, you can listen to virtually anything. Kindle Unlimited Kindle Unlimited is an amazing subscription for my reader friends who literally consume books like snacks. It’s $11.99 a month for access to literally millions of ebooks. While I love this subscription and think it’ll be worth it for people who like ebooks (my favorite medium is through audiobooks right now because I have a toddler and can hardly ever sit down to read), I typically won’t keep a subscription for this app. However, if you read like crazy and love popular books, Kindle Unlimited is for you! Everand I recently got contacted by one of Everand’s reps to try a 30-day free trial in exchange for me honestly reviewing the app. I got three premium unlocks with the trial and used each one on an audiobook (I didn’t even try the ebooks, so I can’t speak on that). With the audiobooks, though, I seriously enjoyed it. The app is pretty easy to navigate and I never had any glitchy issues. The main thing here, though, is the price. The most affordable Everand plan is $11.99 a month for one premium credit plus access to their catalog of titles you can listen to or read at any time. The next plan up (my personal favorite) gives you THREE premium titles a month at only $16.99 a month. When you compare it to other similar subscriptions like Audible (Plus is $7.95 a month just to use Audible’s Plus Catalog and Premium Plus is that plus one credit to use for any audiobook for $14.95 a month, which is most of the popular ones anyway). The conclusion? Everand’s pricing is MUCH better. And my personal favorite... Public Libraries (Overdrive, CloudLibrary, Libby) Okay, okay, so I know this isn’t technically a subscription, but I am all about budgeting! While some libraries may not have an extensive catalog, almost every library I’ve been to uses an app like Libby, CloudLibrary, or Overdrive to let its library patrons electronically borrow ebooks, audiobooks, magazines, and more. It’s freaking amazing. I will never not recommend this to someone because, guys, it’s FREE. The only requirement is that you’re a resident of the county or parish that the library resides in. There are some libraries that allow you to pay a small monthly fee to use their catalog as well even if you don’t live near them (New York City’s library does this for sure), and you can get a much larger catalog that way and still pay less than any book subscription you can find out there. What's your favorite subscription for reading? Do you have any of the ones I've listed? Related posts: No related posts.
