Recently Added Machine Learning Engineers in our Network machine_learning Computer Vision Deep Learning View all (5) Skilled and passionate individual with desire for working on complex real-world problems. Eager to work on challenges that the organization desires to solve with the help of Machine Learning. Responsible, results oriented and works well in teams with a spirit of mutual cooperation and excellence. machine_learning data-science Computer Vision Machine Learning View all (8) Data Scientist with experience in designing, implementing and Productionizing AI solutions in different domains like Supply chain, HR and Product Groups, and designing Safe workplace Environment using AI. Computer Vision Data Architecture Data Engineering View all (5) A resultsdriven AI/ML Leader with over 12 years of experience driving impactful solutions for complex, greenfield challenges across diverse sectors including Nuclear, Automotive, IoT, and Health. Passionate about building highperforming teams and strategically driving innovation to achieve key business objectives. Python NLP PyTorch TensorFlow Flask Computer Vision ANN AWS View all (12) I am a motivated and inquisitive machine learning engineer with 5 years of experience in building and optimizing distributed machine learning systems for model training and inference. data-science Python machine_learning Data Visualization View all (7) Data Scientist with 5+ years of experience in building data intensive products from data ingestion to data processing, predictive modeling, visualizations and deployment at scale to deliver actionable insights and solve complex AI/ML problems. Algorithms Datastructures Debugging programming languages View all (8) Seasoned Machine Learning Engineer with 3.3 years of professional experience working with a specialization in Natural Language Processing, Computer Vision, Deep Learning and Generate AI. Hire Machine Learning Engineers in 4 Easy Steps 01 Tell us what you need We'll get in touch with you to understand your requirements and preferences. 02 Meet the top talent Get 3 to 5 suitable, pre-vetted candidates in 48 hours. 03 Interview with ease Choose the candidate that aligns with your needs and we'll arrange an interview. 04 Hire with confidence Once you decide, we'll take care of the onboarding process for you. Top Reasons to Choose Uplers Hire in 48 Hours Receive the top 3-5 AI-interviewed profiles from our network within 2 days. Top 3.5% Talents Only the best profiles vetted using AI and human intelligence make it to your inbox. 40% Cost Advantage Significant cost benefit of hiring from India compared to your local talent for an equivalent work quality. Works in 5+ Time Zones Talents from India are flexible to work in your preferred time zone. Employer on Record (EOR) Payroll, Administrative support, legalities of the talent are all managed under one roof. Simple Contracts Straightforward agreement with top-most flexibility and freedom. 30 Days Cancellation Cancel without any obligations in cases of dissatisfaction, financial instability, or business slowdown. 2X Retention Rate Credibility in quality service fosters long-lasting client relationships. R JavaScript Kotlin Golang C++ SQL MongoDB Big Data Tools Python R JavaScript Kotlin Golang C++ SQL MongoDB Big Data Tools Python R JavaScript Kotlin Golang C++ SQL MongoDB Big Data Tools Python Machine Learning Deep Learning Statistical Modeling Algorithm Design Artificial Intelligence Natural Language Processing Python Programming Machine Learning Algorithms Deep Learning Frameworks Machine Learning Deep Learning Statistical Modeling Algorithm Design Artificial Intelligence Natural Language Processing Python Programming Machine Learning Algorithms Deep Learning Frameworks Machine Learning Deep Learning Statistical Modeling Algorithm Design Artificial Intelligence Natural Language Processing Python Programming Machine Learning Algorithms Deep Learning Frameworks Data Visualization Data Preprocessing Statistical Modeling Software Engineering Cloud Platforms Databases Devops Data Pipelines Data Visualization Data Preprocessing Statistical Modeling Software Engineering Cloud Platforms Databases Devops Data Pipelines Data Visualization Data Preprocessing Statistical Modeling Software Engineering Cloud Platforms Databases Devops Data Pipelines Top Clients Reviews Uplers earned our trust by listening to our problems and finding the perfect talent for our organization. Uplers helped to source and bring out the top talent in India, any kind of high-level role requirement in terms of skills is always sourced based on the job description we share. The profiles of highly vetted experts were received within a couple of days. It has been credible in terms of scaling our team out of India. Uplers efficient, quick process and targeted approach helped us find the right talents quickly. The professionals they provided were not only skilled but also a great fit for our team. Melanie Kesterton Head of Client Service Uplers' talents consistently deliver high-quality work along with unmatched reliability, work ethic, and dedication to the job. Case Studies of Tech Companies Check Our Latest Blogs Machine Learning Engineer Hiring Trends: What You Need to Know Machine Learning is one of those technologies that has taken the tech market by a turmoil. Businesses are recognizing the value of AI-driven insights and automation resulting in the skyrocketing demand for machine learning engineers. Common Mistakes to Avoid When Hiring Machine Learning Engineers As a business looking to leverage data-driven solutions to hire machine learning engineers is non-negotiable. The rapidly evolving nature of machine learning can be challenging, which is why hiring managers need to be on point of the common pitfalls that can result in poor hiring decisions. What are the Essential Skills and Responsibilities required to hire Machine Learning Engineers Technological advancements have taken the industry by a revolution where Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning have taken over. Machine learning engineers have a pivotal role to play in developing systems and algorithms that enable machines to learn from data and perform tasks without the traditional human intervention. Key Capabilities of Machine Learning Engineers Powering Smart Systems Building smart systems is not merely about having data, it's about having the right team of developers to make sense of it. This starts with knowing how to hire and for product companies the demand to hire machine learning engineers has grown beyond buzzwords. Frequently Asked Questions We provide mid to senior-level machine learning engineers with experience across supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning. They are proficient in Python, TensorFlow, PyTorch, Scikit-learn, and can work on models involving predictive analytics, NLP, and computer vision. Yes. Whether you're building an internal tool, working on a client-facing product, or need support for consulting assignments, our ML engineers can seamlessly integrate into your workflow. Yes, our engineers are remote-ready and can work in sync with US, UK, EU, or APAC time zones, depending on your team's schedule. We typically share vetted profiles within 48 hours. You can expect candidates who match your JD and are ready for interviews almost immediately. No. We maintain a pool of pre-vetted, actively available talent. Most are either in their notice period or looking for immediate engagement, and are ready to onboard after your selection. Absolutely. Whether you're hiring for a short-term AI use case or need a long-term engineer embedded in your product team, we offer both contract and full-time engagement options. Our pricing starts at $2,500/month, varying with experience level and complexity of the role. We offer flexible engagement terms tailored to your needs. We offer a lifetime replacement guarantee. If the hired talent doesn't meet expectations, we'll help you find a better fit, no hassle. Yes. Many of our engineers have worked on end-to-end ML lifecycle tasks, data prep, model training, validation, and deploying models using MLOps tools on cloud platforms like AWS, Azure, or GCP. Yes. If you're scaling your AI function, we can help you onboard multiple machine learning engineers or even cross-functional teams (including data engineers, backend developers, and analysts) as per your roadmap. The modes of communication through which you can get in touch with a hired machine learning engineers include: Email Phone Messaging apps such as WhatsApp, Slack, or Microsoft Teams The average cost of hiring a Machine Learning engineer from Uplers starts at $2500. The number varies depending on the experience level of the developer as well as your requirements. View Our Pricing For 2024 - 25 Yes, ML engineers have a proliferating demand due to the rising adoption of machine learning technologies across various industries. Finding top talent from India is like finding a needle in a haystack. We've spent the last 5 years perfecting it. If you are looking for a job, head to uplers.com/talent. If you are looking to hire, click to activate the form. Finding top talent from India is like finding a needle in a haystack. We've spent the last 5 years perfecting it. If you are looking for a job, head to uplers.com/talent. If you are looking to hire, click to activate the form.
