Best of Philly 2025 Best Small-Space Problem Solver Jillian Moskovitz No matter how grand (or petite) your dwelling is, there will come a time when you need a small-space solution. Squeeze every square inch out of a powder room, say, or find a place to tuck away five humans’ shoes when you don’t have a mudroom, or much of an entryway at all. Moskovitz, design consultant for the low-maintenance, high-style Down2Earth Interior Design, thrives on creative problem solving, helping to maximize your space by making it functional — and full of personality too. As Moskovitz will show you, just because it’s small doesn’t mean it has to be boring. Read More » Website 2024 Best Modern Design Queen REMY Creative The portfolio of Ardmore-based interior designer Randi Edelman is a study in modern style: a high-contrast palette of crisp whites and dramatic blacks, heaping splashes of bold wallpaper, and tons of funky lighting and accessories. Her expert eye for design isn’t surprising: Edelman spent years in the fashion industry before opening her boutique firm four years ago. Read More » Website 2024 Best Whole Home Makeover Marguerite Rodgers Interior Design The staff here are as skilled in project management as they are in aesthetics, bringing architects, landscape architects and contractors together to produce spaces that express their clients’ personalities. Interested in taking a look at their handiwork without snooping through a neighbor’s window? Take a peek at the spruced-up interiors of the Athenaeum on Washington Square, or the new High Street at the Franklin. Read More » 2131 North American Street, Philadelphia, PA Website 2024 Best Up-and-Coming Interior Designer House on Memphis After more than a decade in the design industry (most notably at Rohe Creative), Lisa Hines finally launched her own full-service residential design studio in 2021. Her projects toe the line between modern and classic, with rich colors and wallpapers, dramatic statement stones and tiles, sculptural and vintage pieces, and plenty of singular style. In short: She’s one to watch — and hire. Read More » 2223 Memphis Street, Philadelphia, PA Website 2022 Best Custom Window Treatments Ambiance Design If you’re not a professional designer, maybe you haven’t given much thought to your window treatments — i.e., the only things that help maintain your privacy in a densely populated city. While they can elevate any room in your house, they can also be daunting to choose (a million different options) and install (so much measuring!). Family-run Ambiance Design will come to your home, help you select the perfect window coverings, and return to install them. Products run the gamut from simple Roman shades to the newfangled voice-activated kind. Read More » 718 Dekalb Pike, Blue Bell, PA Website 2021 Best Man-Cave Designer Christina Henck of Henck Design This Philly designer has produced spectacular aeries for Eagle Rodney McLeod and ex-Eagle Malcolm Jenkins as well as for regular folks in less palatial estates — each time capturing her client’s unique personality. Her Fabric Row boutique is designed to put ideas in your head. Read More » 733 South 4th Street, Philadelphia, PA Website 2021 Best Kitchen Designer Ferrarini & Co. Ferrarini & Co. only accepts a few projects every year, prioritizing what matters most to each homeowner. You won’t just cook in your kitchen — you’ll actually enjoy it. Read More » 110 South 20th Street #202a, Philadelphia, PA Website 2018 Best Small-Project Designers Design on Demand by Widell + Boschetti Make your pad Arch Di-worthy without the commitment of a full-service designer with the à la carte e-design option from these Philly up-and-comers. Barette Widell and Christina Boschetti will create a mood board and layout based on your room’s specs (rates start at $1,100) and choose the right products to bring both to life, for an end result that’s more inspired than those seen-that-everywhere looks. Read More » | 267-702-3820 | Website 2014 Best Office Designer Mona Ross Berman Lawyer-turned-designer Mona Ross Berman has been barraged with office-space makeover jobs lately because of the way she deftly combines happy colors with efficient, ergonomic setups. No job is too small she'll rework a company's HQ and streamline your kitchen desk nook. Read More » 3580 Indian Queen Lane, Philadelphia, PA | 215-680-5953 | Website 2014 Best Eco-Friendly Home Redesign Down2Earth Interior Design Yes, of course Amy Cuker uses eco-friendly materials for her redesign projects concrete countertops from a Delaware fabricator, cabinets from Amish woodworkers, low-VOC paints, cork floors. But the LEED-accredited owner of this four-year-old interior design firm has also repurposed old rowhouse washbasins, salvaged pine floorboards for a new staircase, and revived details like antique doorknobs and bathtubs. In essence, Down2Earth can uncover and relocate, refurbish and repaint the potential that was there all along. Read More » 7604 Spring Avenue, Elkins Park, PA | 215-690-4328 | Website
