Fairfield has something for every palate. The community is home to chain restaurants, formal dining, and beloved ‘hole in the wall’ restaurants that have been family owned for decades. Whether you are in the mood for a cheeseburger, Thai, sushi or your favorite Mexican dish, you will find a delicious and memorable restaurant experience here in Fairfield. Sort By Mahogany Soul is a traditional soul food restaurant in Fairfield, CA, offering homestyle meals and familiar comfort classics. Open seven days a week, the restaurant... El Caracol Mexican Restaurant offers a delightful fusion of Salvadoran and Mexican cuisines in a family-friendly setting. Renowned for its freshly made pupusas, the menu... Katna’s Kitchen offers a heartfelt introduction to Filipino cuisine, nestled near Travis Air Force Base in Fairfield, CA. From savory breakfast silogs to sizzling sisig... Established in 1990, this woman-owned restaurant was one of the first to introduce authentic Mexican cuisine to Fairfield, California.Favela’s Mexican Grill offers a vibrant and... Fairfield’s newest Drive-thru coffee booth near the base gate offering cold brew and military discounts. Maru Korean Bistro is a vibrant culinary destination located at 3336 North Texas Street in Fairfield, California. This modern eatery offers a delightful fusion of... Not just a restaurant, but an absolute vibe! Mamá Por Dios is a restaurant that highlights the best of México, with its flavors, aromas, colors,... Million Thai Cuisine is a family owned business with owners hailing from Bangkok, Thailand. They’re located in Downtown Fairfield serving delicious Pad Thai, Drunken Noodles,... Located in the heart of Suisun Valley Wine Country, The Landing Restaurant & Bar in the Village 360 complex offers an awesome All-Day Menu, handcrafted... A drive-through coffee chain known for its’ energetic staff and a wide variety of drinks. It’s perfect when you’re on the go and need an... El Templo Del Taco is an authentically Mexican taqueria specializing in tacos. Their most popular options include al pastor, carne asada, ribeye, arrachera, shrimp, fish,... RG Kitchen offers high-quality dishes that artfully blend Indian and American cuisine. Established in 2024, the restaurant is dedicated to creating a vibrant and enjoyable... Aunt Bill’s Soul Food Cafe is celebrated as the top destination for authentic soul food, offering a taste of family, tradition, and rich flavors. Established... Introducing 1933 Kitchen & Bar, the newest culinary destination in Suisun City, California! Enjoy an unforgettable experience as Chef/Owner Ignacio Wence, combines the finest ingredients... Guests can experience the spacious allure of the restaurant, featuring an expansive menu complemented by a patio that offers panoramic views of the golf course.... Cedars Corner Bar & Kitchen provides a welcoming atmosphere for guests to gather and enjoy craft beers, blended cocktails, a curated wine selection, and a... Butter Pecan Bakeshop is a cookie shop inspired by childhood favorites and classic southern recipes. It started in a small commercial kitchen during the pandemic,... Le Paris Artisan & Gourmet Cafe and Cafe offers a full line of French pastries, desserts, sandwiches, and coffee handcrafted by foodies who bake happiness... Located in Downtown Fairfield, SaiGon Nho serves desliocus Vietnamese Cuisine. From aromatic pho to savory bánh mì, every bite is crafted with the freshest ingredients... Treat yourself to some of the best pastries Downtown Fairfield has to offer! Famous Creations offers exceptional baked goods like cakes, brownies, cupcakes, and cheesecakes... The neighborhood just got much sweeter. Crumbl Cookie is known for their gourmet desserts and treats. Crumbl Cookies offers a weekly rotation of 200-plus flavors... America’s favorite diner serving All-American favorites Since 1947! Original Mels is committed to honoring their 70-year history by continuing to serve mouth-watering food at a... Located in Downtown Fairfield, Casa Agave serves traditional Mexican cuisine and a wide section of cocktails, local wine and beer. Come in for tacos, enchiladas,... Indulge in classics like savory Chow Mein, orange chicken, broccoli shrimps, and wonton soup. China Palace has been open for years and is a local... A San Francisco experience since 1928, It’s It Ice Cream has an outlet in Suisun City! Enjoy their popular flavors like good sundaes, biscuits and... This new fun and colorful dessert shop is a great place to enjoy tons of Mexican ice cream flavors as well as the typical flavors... Baja Ice Cream is your one-stop shop for mouth watering ice cream and snacks. From milkshakes to smoothies and Mexican snacks, you’ll find some type... Savor a breakfast haven at 1601 N Texas St in Fairfield CA. Delight in fluffy pancakes, omelets, and sizzling bacon. Enjoy IHOP Classics or seasonal... Big H Deli is not your typical of deli, but rather a mix of traditional deli and Mediterranean serving hot sandwiches, French dip roast beef,... Authentic Mexican food found in the heart of Suisun Valley. From classic breakfast dishes like Chilaquiles to their Chile Verde, you’ll be sure to find... Looking for a new favorite burger joint in Fairfield, CA? Look no further than MOOYAH! They use the best ingredients to make every burger awesome,... Totto Ramen & Sushi Bar is an authentic and cozy Japanese restaurant specializing in delicious ramen and sushi. The restaurant also has a full bar... Yo Sushi serves everyday Japanese entrees, like tempura and udon, plus imaginative sushi rolls in an intimate space. A contemporary counter-serve pizza restaurant serving New York–style pies and slices, heros, pasta and cannoli. This complex, in the heart of Suisun Valley wine country, features wine tasting, a coffee shop, a restaurant, and a beautiful special event venue. Morning’s... Helmed by Chef Joey Jaraba, Two60 is a great new addition to Fairfield’s dining scene, opened recently at 260 Pittman Road. Over the last 23... Fresh teriyaki dishes, cooked with a fiery passion. Known for big, bold bowls of rice or noodles topped with fresh-cut vegetables and chicken, beef, or... Texas Roadhouse is an American chain that specializes in steaks. Other delicious favorites at this family-friendly restaurant include Fall-Off-The-Bone Ribs, Made-From-Scratch Sides, and Fresh-Baked Bread. The food... Located in the Green Valley Shopping Center, The Napa Deli is a family- owned and operated deli. Menu includes breakfast, wraps and sandwiches. Looking for a delicious breakfast or brunch experience? Maple Bar Cafe a is must-try for anyone visiting the area, serving countless of American breakfast dishes,... Teriyaki House serves traditional Japanese dishes, specializing in teriyaki. Bento boxes are especially popular at lunch time. Enjoy the hospitality that makes Mexican dining so enjoyable, Taqueria Mi Mezcal stands for high-quality, delectable cuisine. Their signature dishes are homemade and prepared daily... This Travis Blvd taqueria is known for its giant burritos, chimichangas and crispy tacos. Enjoy burritos, tacos, tortas and other Mexican favorites at this downtown Fairfield restaurant. Enjoy a wide assortment of sushi and Japanese cuisine at Sushi King. Spicy curries, noodles and other traditional Thai dishes are served in this relaxed Suisun City restaurant. A contemporary restaurant with an outdoor patio serving classic and original Chinese dishes and cocktails. Sourdough & Co strives to bring the freshest and highest quality deli sandwiches to Fairfield. Renowned for our freshly baked Sourdough bread, served warm, our... At Slanted Tree Kitchen & Taproom, taste buds and spirits ignite in a vibrant atmosphere that welcomes all to indulge in the finest California comfort... Rustwater Kitchen and Taproom is a beer bar with 30 craft beers on draft, as well as a small menu mainly consisting of American classics... Located in downtown Fairfield, Saffron offers authentic Indian cuisine for lunch and dinner. Rockville Kitchen + Bar offers traditional breakfast and lunch featuring fresh salads, sandwiches and their signature bacon-infused burgers. Local beer and wine are paired with... Serving American favorites for breakfast and lunch.Best known for the best American country-style breakfast, lunch or brunch in Solano County. The pancakes are nice, airy... Come & experience fresh-made Pizza & Wings in Downtown Fairfield, CA with fresh cut vegetables and dough that’s made daily. They use only the best... This casual eatery offers Vietnamese noodle soups and sandwiches, along with Thai teas. With a cozy and modern setting, Q’s Halal Mediterranean delivers an array of simple spices to create mouth watering dishes, old country recipes with a... A family-owned eatery showcasing Szechuan & Mandarin fare, with takeout and catering available. This chain serves a variety of Mexican favorites, with Happy Hour specials every afternoon. This Solano County chain serves delicious, quality Vietnamese food in a family dining setting. Peet’s Coffee in Fairfield offers a wide selection of coffee and tea beverages. Whether you’re looking for a hot latte or a cold iced tea,... The concept is simple – Bring the flavors of Thailand that we enjoyed throughout our youth in Bangkok right here to California. This popular chain features oversized burgers, fries, all-day breakfast, and lots of pies and shakes in a retro setting. This family-owned store in downtown Fairfield has a food counter that serves mouth-watering Mediterranean favorites, including lamb kebabs, chicken and beef shawarmas, Falafel sandwiches, hummus with pita... This chain restaurant serves French and American favorites in a rustic-inspired setting. A local favorite, Monsoon Burger serves its mouth-watering burger with a range of meats and toppings, including vegan options, as well as French fries, salads, fish... Maverick Crepes N More is your premier sports bar in Suisun City, CA. If you are in the mood for American food, we have some... At each Mary’s Pizza Shack, we prepare Mary’s Italian comfort food from scratch every day. No heat lamps. No frozen dough. No canned sauces. Our... Brothers, Kyle and Jason Barraza, of local favorite The Napa Deli, along with Executive Chef Jonathan Rodriguez are proud to launch Mankas Grill located at... This Suisun City restaurant serves a variety of American favorites, prepared with seasonal, fresh ingredients, as well as a full bar. A Chinese eatery and bar serving a variety of classic dishes and family dinners. La Dona is sure to impress with authentic Mexican cuisine. Check out La Guagua, the newest Latin American restaurant in Suisun City! Enjoy delicious dishes from all over Latin America. The restaurant offers a mix... La Cabana is a longtime Mexican bar and grill in Suisun City that serves beer and home-style Mexican food. The family-owned La Costa Azul serves delicious homestyle Mexican favorites. Be sure to try the homemade tortillas! Here at Pikul Thai Bistro, you will experience the liveliness and excitement of their exhibition kitchen. Their extraordinary fast and friendly waitstaff wishes to make... Located just outside the gate to Travis Air Force Base, Koreana Korean BBQ serves traditional Korean favorites. La Barista Espresso in Suisun Valley serves up specialty coffee drinks that are sure to please. This cafe is decorated with unique art pieces giving... The Joy of Eating Cafe serves breakfast and lunch favorites seven days a week near the Suisun City waterfront. Each of the Two Journey Coffee locations in Fairfield, offer a unique and tasty experience for coffee lovers. Located on Travis Boulevard and also on... This Mexican and Salvadorian restaurant serves many traditional favorites and is best known for its custom made Pupusas. At Jarritos, you can find traditional Mexican favorites including burritos, sopes and tacos. A local favorite, Joe’s Buffet in downtown Fairfield is a counter-serve neighborhood institution offering deli sandwiches and sides. If you like Indian food and American style pizza, you owe it to yourself to try this place! Tasty Indian Pizza offers unique flavors like butter... Visiting Fairfield from out of state? Make sure to stop for a burger at In-N-Out! This classic California-based burger chain serves customizable burgers, hand-cut fries and... A simple menu of familiar Chinese food such as rice & noodle dishes offered in a modest setting. Hot Stone serves large portions of Korean favorites. The lunch specials are very popular. A casual restaurant chain with Southern-inspired breakfast and lunch fare. Put some fun and excitment into your dinner selection! Enjoy a regular menu, Hibachi grill, sushi, and full bar. A longtime Chinese restaurant and bar in Fairfield serving Sichuan, Mandarin & Cantonese classics. A great location for Mexican food, Hecho en Mexico serves delicious burritos, enchiladas and tacos. As Hilton Garden Inn’s signature restaurant, The Garden Grille & Bar offers cooked-to-order breakfast, dinner entrées, and handcrafted cocktails. Discover familiar favorites, fresh menu items,... Frank & Yuen’s has served delicious Chinese favorites in Fairfield for over two decades! A popular spot for lunch specials and to-go meals. Authentic Mexican favorites, margaritas and other cocktails are served in this colorful restaurant lined with art and artifacts. Voted Fairfield’s #1 Italian Ristorante and Runner Up For Best Pizzeria, Evelyn’s is a classic Italian restaurant offering pizzas, sandwiches, salads, calzones and take-&-bake pasta dinners. The menu features a ‘signature classic... El Azteca serves delicious authentic Mexican cuisine. Well known for burritos, tacos and nachos. Authentic Mexican food found off the beaten path on Rockville Road known for large portions and hand-made tortillas. A drive-through coffee chain known for its’ energetic staff and a wide variety of drinks. It’s perfect when you’re on the go and need an... Enjoy Chinese standards and customizable Mongolian BBQ bowls served in a traditional, strip-mall setting. This local favorite, open for over 50 years, is known for its old-fashion classic burgers, shakes and malts served on counter seating. Dave’s only accepts... With over 170 locations, Dave and Busters offers an enhanced experience featuring state-of-the-art games, a diverse menu with delicious options ranging from wings to steaks,... Keith and Kathy Layton, East Coast transplants, opened the first “The Cheese Steak Shop” in San Francisco in 1982 to bring authentic Philly-style sandwiches to... Known for their mesquite-fired flavor and farm-fresh ingredients, the restaurant uses top-quality products to craft favorites like sizzling fajitas, mouthwatering guacamole, flautas, and handcrafted margaritas,... Cast Iron Grill & Bar offers a fun and welcoming atmosphere for guests, featuring a variety of delicious dishes, including their renowned wings and signature... The Cordelia location on Pittman Road in Fairfield, California, stands out among the restaurant’s four locations with its spacious dining area and a separate room... Cenario’s Pizza of Fairfield, located on West Texas Street in Fairfield, California, operates as a pick-up and delivery-only restaurant. Conveniently situated between the Cordelia and... Chaats Cuisine in Fairfield’s Green Valley serves fresh innovative and high quality Indian food at affordable prices.The menu features Chaats, Wraps, Kabab, Biryani, Curries, Naan... Want to enjoy a cup of coffee in the heart of Suisun Valley wine country? Visit Buzz Coffee, located at the Village 360 complex. Here,... Black Bear Diner is a family-friendly restaurant chain known for its cozy, rustic atmosphere and hearty, home-style meals. Inspired by the warmth and charm of... Bangkok Paradise is recognized as an industry leader in the restaurant business, thanks to its commitment to exceptional service and quality. The restaurant prioritizes customer... Babs Delta Diner is a colorful diner with checkered floors and vintage posters serving daytime eats and strong coffee. Babs is located along the Suisun... Serving as a welcoming neighborhood bar and grill, Applebee’s offers it’s affordable lunch specials for colleagues or a satisfying dinner with family and friends that... Athenian Grill is located on the picturesque Suisun City waterfront with outdoor and indoor seating available. The restaurant serves Greek and American meals, as well... Located in downtown Fairfield, Alejandro’s is a homestyle Mexican restaurant offering morning to night menu options in a bustling counter-serve setting. This Mexican fast-food chain features a menu of classic favorites and a 24-hour drive-thru. Popular favorites include burritos and combination plates, breakfast burritos and breakfast... PREV 1 - 12 of 121 NEXT
