Job Search & Training We tailor financial resources specifically to your needs to help you plan your career and increase your income. We have people here to support you at any point in your career journey. Every year, we place thousands of local people in jobs thanks to our direct connection to local employers. By completing the form, you can register by text for an upcoming orientation that fits your schedule. Meet our team and see all the ways we can support your career journey! For career training scholarships and case-managed services, you may be eligible if you live in Austin/Travis County and are authorized to work in the U.S. and meet at least one of the below criteria: You’re unemployed, have been laid off, or classify as low-income (Note: You can classify as low-income even if you’re employed) Have a high school diploma and no further post-secondary certification. SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE! Train for a Career Train for a job that will provide great pay and stability for you and your family — starting today! Workforce Solutions scholarships support training for some of the region’s high-skill, high-growth occupations. We can help you determine what you want to study, award you with a scholarship, and connect you to employment. Many of our programs include wraparound services, including transportation, child care assistance, mobile hotspots, and more. Earn and Learn through Apprenticeships Find a Job Now Registering for WorkInTexas.com is your first step to finding employment. Take advantage of this free, online job resource tool and wraparound supports available through Workforce Solutions Capital Area. Workforce Solutions Capital Area connects job seekers with job opportunities through WorkinTexas.com . It’s a free, online job resource tool powered by the Texas Workforce Commission. Benefits include: Access to thousands of local and statewide jobs Online real-time job searches Contact information for employers Email notifications of job matches Professional resume wizard Helpful career tools State of Texas or teacher applications Ability to save your searches Find the Path to a Brighter Future Use our online Career Coach to explore careers and training in our region or take an assessment to see what careers are best for you! Career Events & Workshops Join us to learn how to get the most out of Work In Texas, create effective resumes, ace job interviews, succeed at work, directly connect to employers, and more. Career MAPS Day 1/4: Measure and Meaning Learn WorkInTexas Career MAPS Day 2/4: Attitude and Altitude Overcoming Barriers to Employment Resume Writing Learn WorkInTexas Additional Resources Texas Workforce Commission Unemployment Insurance Services The Texas Workforce Commission (TWC) handles all Unemployment Insurance (UI) matters. UI services are available online 24/7, and by telephone Monday-Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Note: As a rule, you can get help via the internet faster than by telephone. All individuals who file an unemployment insurance claim must register for work at WorkInTexas.com. For UI services available online go to the Texas Workforce Commission’s Unemployment Benefits Services page. Online services include: User ID and Password Creation Application for Benefits Requesting Benefit Payments Calculating and Reporting Earnings Claim and Payment Status Registering for Work through WorkInTexas.com Information on Appeals To access UI services, please call 1.800.939.6631. If you need assistance while at one of our Career Centers, please ask one of the Career Center staff. We will be glad to advise you. Careers We Fund The Targeted Occupations Lists are used to guide the investment of workforce program funds for training. Workforce Solutions Capital Area regularly analyzes the regional labor market, looking for industry and occupational trends. Based on this analysis, we have identified In-Demand Industries, In-Demand Occupations and Targeted Occupations. Career Planning & Labor Market Info Career Planning: Get help identifying the best job opportunities in the Austin-Travis County region. Labor Market Information: We analyze local and regional labor market data to provide real-time, in-depth knowledge for your career search. Career Coach: Explore careers and training in our region or take an assessment to see what careers are best for you! Veteran Services We provide priority service to veterans and their spouses. Learn more. For People with Disabilities We provide accessibility equipment to assist people with disabilities. Learn more. Youth Services Learn more. Free Online Learning Metrix Learning gives you access to self-paced, expert approved training for 180 days! Pass your courses with 80% or higher to earn a certificate of completion, which you can download, print, and bring on interviews to show employers you have the skills they’re looking for! Metrix also offers industry certification training in popular certifications, like Microsoft Office, Project Management, CompTIA, and many more! Contact Us Click below to choose the most convenient option for you. We look forward to working with you!
