Workforce Training & Development At GSG Talent Solutions, we understand the importance of empowering individuals with the skills they need to succeed in today’s competitive job market. As a leading staffing firm in Austin, Texas, we offer comprehensive Austin workforce training programs that cater to diverse career paths. Each one is intentionally designed to meet the specific demands of the Central Texas job market, making it easier for aspiring professionals to succeed. The Goodwill Excel Center Adult High School The Goodwill Excel Center Adult High School provides a unique opportunity for adults seeking to complete their high school education. This free public high school program is tailored to meet the needs of adult learners, offering flexible scheduling and personalized support. Whether you’re looking to enhance your career prospects or fulfill personal goals, this program sets the foundation for success by offering a second chance at a diploma, which is often the first step toward career training in Central Texas. The Goodwill Career & Technical Academy Technology Training In the rapidly evolving tech industry, staying current is essential. Our Technology training programs at GCTA prepare students by helping them gain in-demand skills today’s employers need. By offering formal certifications, we ensure our graduates are ready to excel in the Austin job market today, tomorrow, and beyond. Medical Certifications The healthcare sector continues to grow, and so does the demand for skilled professionals. GCTA offers certifications in various medical fields, including phlebotomy, medical coding, medical assistant, nursing assistant, and patient care technician. These programs are designed to provide the knowledge and practical skills needed to thrive in a medical career, making career training in Central Texas accessible and effective. Project Management Project management is a critical skill across many industries. Our project management training program equips students with the tools and methodologies necessary to lead projects successfully. With a focus on real-world applications, this certification helps professionals advance their careers in today’s dynamic work environment. Skilled Trades For those interested in the trades, GCTA offers training in construction, electrical, and plumbing certifications. These skilled trades are essential to the infrastructure of Central Texas, and our programs ensure that students are well-prepared to enter the workforce with confidence. CDL Training With the growing need for skilled drivers in Central Texas, this program is a direct path to a stable and rewarding career. Commercial drivers are in high demand, and our CDL training program is designed to meet this need. We provide comprehensive instruction that prepares students for the CDL exam and a successful career in transportation. Working Hand-in-Hand with Local Employers and Professionals At GSG Talent Solutions, we believe in the power of collaboration. We work closely with local employers to identify the skills most needed in the current job market. By aligning our training programs with these needs, we help candidates achieve ideal placements and build lifelong careers that match their aspirations and abilities. Our partnerships with professionals and businesses ensure that Austin career education center graduates are equipped with the skills that employers are looking for, making our training programs a valuable asset to the community. Through our comprehensive Austin workforce training programs, GSG Talent Solutions is committed to enhancing the career prospects of individuals across Central Texas. Explore all of our training options to get your career moving in the right direction today. “GSG is one of most outstanding and successful places I’ve ever had a chance to be a part of. The programs, academics, including job placement and assistance. Highly recommended for anyone who has motivation and needs team support. Absolutely outstanding employees motivated and driven to help anyone in any situation.” “I have loved my experience thus far. I have had no real hiccups or issues in the onboarding process and have really enjoyed all of my interactions with the staff that helped to get me set up with my employer. I know that all representatives are just a phone call or email away and each and every one of them has a service-oriented heart.” “I already have and will continue to recommend GSG Talent Solutions to anyone looking for a job. They have been very helpful to myself and a couple of friends, they put us in good-paying jobs that have stability and assisted with other needs until I was on my feet and able to support my family. Thank you GSG for being there for us in our time of need” “My recruiter was absolutely amazing. She was helpful and high-touch. We suffered a catastrophic energy grid failure on my first day of work, and she helped me communicate with whomever I needed. She performed as part of the team, not simply someone sticking an applicant in a role.” “I feel great with all of your help in finding me employment so fast. I can’t thank you enough! Keep up with the good work on serving the community.” “I am challenged with the job that I am doing through GSG. I also get paid each week that really helps with budgeting. Thank you.” “I enjoy the opportunity to work for a company that cares about people especially with disabilities.” “Outstanding working culture and GSG’s staff is always on the lookout for its employees and their satisfaction.” “Rikki Santaella is a great recruiter that kept me in mind for several months and continually submitted my resume to multiple positions over the months. Even though I didn’t get those offers she stuck with me and continued to push until I finally landed an offer. She was fantastic to work with and her dedication got me the job I really wanted and fit my skill set. Thank you Rikki!” “I feel that your staff has equipped me with the tools that I needed to get where I am now.” INSIGHTS Insights for job seekers and employers alike.
