Build your marketable skills through trainings and workshops. In less than two months you’ll gain professional qualifications to advance your career. Training Pathways to a New Career We invite you to explore our available short term career trainings, designed to equip you with a strong foundation in digital skills, customer service and technical skills to gain entry level employment. See details below. Attend an information session to learn more OR fill out the Career Pathways Program Application and return it to Career.Pathways@hired.org Office and Medical Administrative Professional Jump start your career in an office professional setting. You’ll receive training and certifications in customer service, digital literacy, business professionalism, and medical terminology concepts. You will also have opportunities to network with employer partners, and learn more about available jobs in the industry. January 12, 2026 - February 26, 2026 Hybrid (first 2 weeks in-person, remainder online) 4 days/week for 7 weeks Monday-Thursday 9:30 AM – 2:30 PM Home ENERGY Explore how changing one part of a home affects homeowners’ comfort, health, and safety. Acquire knowledge and skills to earn the Building Science Principles (BSP) credential. You’ll receive training and education around the basics of building science and home energy audits and so much more. Location: Sabathani Community Center 310 E 38th St Minneapolis, MN 55409 Registration for the January class is closeD. please contact us to be added to a future waiting list Human Services Start your career journey into the field of Human Services. You’ll receive training and certifications in customer service, digital literacy, business professionalism, human services concepts, networking opportunities, and more. January 26, 2026 - March 5, 2026 Hybrid (half in person, half online) 4 days/week for 6 weeks Monday-Thursday 9:30 AM – 2:30 PM Medical manufacturing AND MICROELECTRONICS Begin a career in manufacturing, get job readiness training working with microscopes and hands-on experience with wafer handling. December 1 - December 19, 2025 5 days/week for 3 weeks Monday - Friday, 10-4pm Location: Hired Brooklyn Center Office 6200 Shingle Creek Pkwy Suite 225 Brooklyn Center, MN 55430 You’ll receive training and certification in Microelectronics Assembler, Microsoft Office, digital literacy, and more. You’ll receive: • Free training • Certifications and other credentials • Career coaching and job search assistance • Placement opportunities • Connections to other resources as needed. Attend a Career Training info session or apply now! attend A 45-MINUTE ONLINE INFORMATION SESSION! Information Sessions are held every Tuesday at 10:30 am. Apply Now! Download the Career Pathways program application. Return the completed application to Career.Pathways@Hired.org or fax to 612-338-1375 . You will be contacted by an employment counselor within five days of sending your application. “The State of Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development (DEED) funded (or funded in part) this training through a grant. The grant recipient created this training. DEED does not endorse this publicity or training or make guarantees, warranties, or assurances of any kind, express or implied, regarding the accuracy, completeness, timeliness, usefulness, adequacy, continued availability or ownership of the information herein or elsewhere.” We’re happy to answer all your questions about any or all of these training programs. Eligibility varies by program. Contact us to determine your eligibility for services.
