Eco Mobility expands rental car services to 10 more cities The company said it is expanding its footprint to Tier 2/3 cities to offer corporate car rental services. Carzonrent appoints Yogender Verma as Chief Executive Officer Self-drive car rental company IndusGo raises INR 100 crore in second round of funding Hertz to offer 25,000 EV rentals to Uber drivers in Europe Rental car giants embark on electric after pandemic bonanza Car-as-a-Service market may grow to USD 187 billion by 2025 Zoomcar appoints Geiv Dubash as Chief Financial Officer Sequoia-backed Zoomcar eyes US listing via SPAC Lyft partners with rental group Sixt to target carless city dwellers Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals Subscribe to our Daily Newsletter By continuing you agree to our Privacy Policy & Terms & Conditions Download ETAuto App for Realtime updates Seamless reading experience. Save your favourite. Download ETAuto App for Realtime updates of content you follow Seamless reading experience Save your favourite articles Advertisement More in CAR RENTAL Hertz to pay lenders $650 mln to resolve dispute over fleet reduction Hertz had filed for bankruptcy in May after its business was decimated by the coronavirus outbreak and talks with its lenders failed to result in much-needed relief. Vroom Drive launches franchise program Franchise outlets will provide the same service that the Vroom Drive brand is known for. Volkswagen explores acquisition of car rental group Europcar Europcar has market capitalization of 390 million euros and net debt as of the end of March of more than 1 billion euros. Kynikos Associates closed Hertz short bet right before bankruptcy Short sellers bet against a company by borrowing stock to sell, hoping to buy it back at a lower price. Fire sale of Hertz Rentals poses risk to broader auto sector Used-car prices at auction have plunged since much of the U.S. economy began to shut down in mid-March. Car rental company Hertz in talks with banks for new financing amid travel bans The car rental company, its lenders and prospective investors have discussed a first-lien loan worth several hundred million dollars at a yield of about 12%. Covid-19: Ola waives car lease rentals In the last two weeks, Ola has created infrastructures like parking stations and security mechanisms across the country to station cars that have been handed over from drivers temporarily. It's more than fleet size in the rent-a-car industry Car Rental Service is defined as the vehicle renting service offered by the companies to the user looking to use a car for any term which can be as short as 5-12 hours or long as a year. M&M offers its personal vehicles range on monthly subscription The scheme covers models like KUV100, XUV500, XUV300, Scorpio, TUV300, Marazzo and Alturas G4, which will be available for a period of one to four years in case of a new car, it said. Tesla service is criticized in BMW’s backyard Poor service is an issue that’s already plagued Tesla in Norway, Europe’s largest electric-car market per capita. Avis completes 20 years of operations in India The company has launched various services across multiple formats – including chauffeur drive, operating lease, self-drive and fleet management services – to fulfil the requirements of both corporate and retail customers across India. Load More Advertisement
