Student Legal Services will be open 9 a.m.–4 p.m. from Monday, Dec. 22–Tuesday, Dec. 23 and closed Wednesday, Dec. 24. We will be closed Friday, Jan. 2 and open 8 a.m.–5 p.m. from Monday, Jan. 5–Friday, Jan. 9 . Regardless of who is at fault, dealing with a legal dispute can be overwhelming. Without legal advice and the power of a trusted attorney, legal matters can even derail your academic career. Student Legal Services has offered confidential legal advice and representation to IU Bloomington students since 1971. We’ve truly seen it all. If you are in legal trouble, or just have a legal question, but aren’t sure how or if we can help, call us anyway. We provide free, confidential legal advice and services for IU Bloomington students. We'll even represent you in court for civil (non-criminal) cases. These services are covered by your student activity fee, so let us help. Our licensed attorneys and legal interns are experienced in handling a variety of legal matters. Stay focused on your studies and let us be your safety net. See our services Office hours: Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. If you are an IU Bloomington student, you have already paid for our services. Our office is funded from the Student Activity Fee (we get around $9 from each student), which was assessed along with tuition and other charges on your bursar bill. This means that our advice and representation are available at no extra charge. Usually, the only out-of-pocket expenses for our student clients are court fees. Start by telling us about your legal issue. Complete this online form to schedule an appointment. From there, we will determine how we can best help you. We employ four full-time attorneys who are licensed in the state of Indiana and more than two dozen second- and third-year law students from the IU Maurer School of Law. An intern, working under the supervision of one of our attorneys, will serve as your primary contact with the office. Our attorneys supervise every aspect of our interns’ work, and your intern will only take action on your case with your permission, and with the approval of their supervising attorney. Our attorneys and interns are bound by the Indiana Rules of Professional Conduct. Attorney-client confidentiality is an essential element of any attorney-client relationship, and our relationship with our student clients is no exception. Many of our student clients want their parents or other trusted adults in on their cases. We will ask for your express consent before we discuss your case with anyone else, even your parent or guardian. All Indiana University events, groups, activities, and educational, cultural, and historical observances welcome all IU students and other members of the Indiana University community.
