Legal Tip of the Week Going to Court: Courthouse Staff Always be polite to the Court staff and be prepared with any information they may need. Going to Court: Be on time! Be on time for your Court appearance or for any other appointment about your case. Going to Court: How to Behave Be respectful of everyone in the Court. This includes the judge, the Court staff, the other party involved in your case, and the witnesses. Going to Court: Your Appearance When you go to Court, dress as professionally as you can. This means clothes that are clean and neat. Government Benefits: Reporting Changes If you are applying for or receiving a government benefit designed for low-income people, promptly report all changes in household size and income. Housing: Mortgage Payments If you are behind in your mortgage payments, or if you are concerned that you will not be able to make your mortgage payments, contact a government-approved Housing Counselor for assistance and advice. Housing: Being a Good Tenant Be a good tenant. Pay your rent on time. Keep your apartment clean. Consumer: Credit Reports Order a copy of your credit report. Make sure it’s accurate and includes only those activities you’ve authorized. Test Consumer: Bank Account Balances If you don’t have enough money in your account, don’t write the check or authorize the debit. Consumer: Bank Accounts Don’t give your account number and bank routing information to anyone you don’t know. General: Keeping Important Papers After you sign any important paper, keep and save a copy. General: Signing Papers Before signing any important paper, read it carefully. Consumer: Co-signing a Loan Beware of co-signing. When you co-sign for a relative or co-worker to buy a car or obtain a loan, you become legally responsible for making the payments if the other person stops making them. Consumer: Buying Goods and Services Beware of door-to-door, phone, and television salespersons. Chances are good that you do not really need the item or service, or that you can get a better deal elsewhere. Government Benefits: Keeping Appointments If you are applying for or receiving any type of government benefit, try not to miss appointments, and show up on time for appointments whenever possible. Housing: Written Leases If you sign a lease to rent an apartment or a house, get and keep a copy.
