Cheapest Website Builders: Get Online for Under $15 We may receive a commission from our partners if you click on a link and purchase a product or service on their website. Learn more site speed 7-day free trial 150+ templates included Great for website building beginners online stores From $5 3-day free trial 200+ templates Generates products links to sell products on social media portfolios From $4.80 per month 15-day free trial Social media integration included SEO tools available beginners From $10.99 Free plan available Free SSL certificates Email automation tools included creatives From $16 14-day free trial 150+ templates included Email marketing tools available Our March 2025 website builder testing found Hostinger to be the cheapest website builder , with plans starting from just $2.99 per month. Using a budget-friendly builder significantly reduces overhead costs, but you don’t have to sacrifice quality for price. In this guide, I’ll walk you through each of our top-rated cheap website builders and share my recommendations, based on my own hands-on testing and more than 300 hours of research by our expert team. The Cheapest Website Builders of 2025 Hostinger ($2.99) – Best site speed Shopify ($5 Shopify Starter) – Best for online stores Pixpa ($4.80) – Best for portfolios GoDaddy ($10.99) – Best for beginners Squarespace ($14.40 with code WBE10) – Best for creatives Key Takeaways🔍 When paying for a website builder subscription in bulk, you’ll often receive a heavily discounted introductory offer . Hostinger has the cheapest plans with the most long-term savings, but you’ll have to pay for two years upfront to make the most of this. Use code “WBE10” to save 10% on Squarespace’s plans . You can get Shopify’s introductory offer on a pay-as-you-go plan, but be aware that the offer only lasts three months. To avoid being caught off guard by price hikes, be aware of the length of any introductory offers and the renewal fees before subscribing. Cheapest Website Builders: At a Glance Aside from price, there’s more to factor in to make sure you choose the right website building platform for your needs. Here’s a quick overview of our top cheap website builders: BEST AI FEATURES Pixpa Overall Rating 4.2 Overall Rating 4.2 Overall Rating 3.5 Overall Rating 4.1 Overall Rating 4.5 Cheapest plan Cheapest plan $5 Shopify Starter plan Cheapest plan $8 $4.80 on a 12-month contract Cheapest plan $10.99 Cheapest plan Free plan or free trial 7-day free trial Free plan or free trial 3-day free trial Free plan or free trial 15-day free trial Free plan or free trial Free plan Free plan or free trial 14-day free trial Number of templates 150+ Number of templates 1,000+ Number of templates 200+ Number of templates 200+ Number of templates 190+ Storage space Unlimited Storage space Unlimited Storage space 3GB Storage space Unlimited Storage space Unlimited Transaction fees No transaction fees Transaction fees 0.6 – 2% (without Shopify Payments) Transaction fees No transaction fees Transaction fees 2.7% + $0.30 Transaction fees 0% – 2% Try Hostinger Try Shopify Try Pixpa Try GoDaddy Start Free Trial Why you can trust us 🤝 At Website Builder Expert, our unbiased reviews, guides, and comparisons are backed up by over 300 hours of data collection and research . I’ve also tested every builder in this article, so I can bring you independent recommendations for the top website builders for creating your own site. You can read more about our unique research methodology here. 1. Hostinger: $2.99 per month Hostinger Best for AI fans For beginners For the budget-conscious For simple website needs Free trial available Paid Plans: $2.99 - $19.99 / month Pros Fastest site loading speed Great suite of AI tools Ecommerce plan available Cons Limited scalability No app market Steep renewal fees Hostinger is the most affordable website builder on this list, with plans starting from $2.99 per month. It’s an ideal option for beginners and small business owners who want to make use of its user-friendly drag-and-drop editor and ever-growing suite of AI tools. However, while its AI tools might be advanced, it lacks other basic functionality. For example, there’s no app store or email marketing features – if these are essential for your site, Squarespace and Shopify will give you access to better tools. How Much Does Hostinger Cost? Hostinger’s pricing is split between two website builder plans: Premium and Business. Hostinger runs limited student discounts through its partner platform, Student Beans. Plus, users who sign up for a 48-month term of either plan can take advantage of Hostinger’s introductory deal. This gives you three months free, a year’s free domain, and a heavily discounted monthly price : Premium Website Builder: $2.99 per month Business Website Builder: $3.99 per month After your first two years are up, you’ll be charged the standard monthly price: $10.99 per month $13.99 per month Hostinger doesn’t charge any transaction fees on its ecommerce plan, making it the most affordable entry into selling online. Are Hostinger’s Plans Affordable Long Term? Both of Hostinger’s plans are very affordable, and with only a $1 price difference between them, it’s risk-free to upgrade or downgrade as you see fit. To unlock Hostinger’s full suite of AI tools and ecommerce features, you’ll need the Business plan. Still, the majority of core website features, such as a free domain name and access to the AI website builder, come with the cheaper plan. If you’re unsure which to choose, Hostinger offers a seven-day free trial , as well as a 30-day money-back guarantee. Is Hostinger Good Value for Money? Hostinger is the cheapest website builder on this list, which makes it an affordable option for budget conscious beginners looking to test the waters. Still, our testing indicates that GoDaddy and Squarespace offer a greater quality and variety of features compared to Hostinger, providing better value despite the higher cost. While Hostinger has continued to hone its suite of AI tools this year, including the AI Product Information Generator and Kodee, a built-in AI assistant to help you set up and manage your website, it’s still lacking the fundamental – and arguably more important – features that make up a well-rounded builder. For instance, you won’t be able to carry out email and social media marketing. My verdict: Is Hostinger worth the money? I really enjoyed setting up a website with Hostinger because of its AI-powered builder and tools. This made the whole experience easy and quick – in my opinion, it rivals Squarespace for ease of use. However, because of its more limited suite of features and lack of key functionality (such as email marketing), Hostinger is best for very small businesses and personal, informational sites. At such an affordable price point, it’s definitely worth the money. 2. Shopify: $5 per month Shopify Starter plan Shopify Best for online stores Ideal for online stores For big inventories Good scalability Free trial available Paid Plans: $29 - $299 / month Pros Best for experienced builders Good AI tools Huge app store Cons Handful of free templates Some additional costs Limited customization Shopify is our top-rated ecommerce website builder, offering an affordable $5 per month Starter plan – though its actual website builder plans are much more expensive. Shopify’s Starter plan enables you to sell on social media (such as Instagram and WhatsApp), and includes basic inventory management tools, analytics to monitor selling, and a custom Linkpop page to drive customers to products. However, it doesn’t include the ability to build an ecommerce website. How Much Does Shopify Cost? Shopify’s pricing is more expensive than other builders on this list, particularly Hostinger. Besides the limited $5 per month Shopify Starter plan, there are three core premium plans: Basic $29 per month Grow $79 per month Advanced $299 per month Shopify doesn’t have a long term discount for new starters like other options on this list, but it has a three-day free trial and you can get your first three months for just $1 . Ecommerce sellers will be charged a 2% transaction fee on Shopify’s Basic plan, which will lower to 0.6% as you upgrade. Alternatively, using Shopify’s native gateway, Shopify Payments, will remove this fee all together and save you money. Are Shopify’s Plans Affordable Long Term? There’s a steep price hike between Shopify’s Starter and Core plans, which can be hard to justify as your business grows. For instance, upgrading from the Starter to the Basic plan will increase your monthly spend by $24 . On top of that, Shopify’s introductory offer only offers three months of savings, unlike other builders on this list that give you a discount for a whole year. With basic analytics and the ability to sell unlimited products, Shopify Starter is a great choice for casual sellers building up a customer base without their own online store. However, to access advanced selling features—such as discount codes and greater customization options to showcase your brand—you’ll need to pay for one of Shopify’s core premium plans. Is Shopify Good Value for Money? Shopify ranks lowest for value among these five builders due to its higher price point relative to standard website building features. However, if your business requires ecommerce functionality and has the budget, Shopify’s powerful sales features are worth the cost. Given the high costs, Shopify does give you access to powerful ecommerce features from its cheapest plan. The same can’t be said for other website builders, like GoDaddy or Squarespace. My verdict: Is Shopify's Starter plan worth the money? If you’re simply selling on the side and want to focus on socials, then the Shopify Starter plan is a great deal. However, I really recommend upgrading to one of Shopify’s core premium plans to build a polished website for your online store. Yes, these are more expensive than other builders on this list, but you unlock a lot of impressive sales features to support your ecommerce journey. If you have the budget to spare and want to sell online, a dedicated ecommerce builder like Shopify is well worth it. Read our Q&A with a real Shopify business: Q&A 1. What did you initially think about Shopify's pricing, and how did you decide that it was a good fit for your business? As our sales grew, upgrading to the Advanced plan provided the additional features we needed to manage inventory and discounts more effectively. The feature of localized selling with custom markets with the advanced plan was a huge plus, allowing us to scale our business growth. 2. Which Shopify features do you think are great value for money? Customizing our selected Shopify theme, Turbo!, to align with our store’s unique style and objectives proved to be an invaluable investment. The ability to tailor every aspect to our brand’s vision not only justified the cost but also enhanced the overall shopping journey for our customers, ensuring a seamless and delightful experience from start to finish. 3. Do you have any budgeting tips when using Shopify? We embraced a “start small, grow big” mentality. We began with a modest budget, focusing on core functionalities rather than fancy extras. This allowed us to test the waters and refine our approach before scaling up our spending alongside our business growth. Choosing the right Shopify plan was crucial. We didn’t get swept up in the most expensive option. Instead, we carefully evaluated features and pricing to find a plan that perfectly fit our needs and growth projections. This ensured we maximized the value we received from Shopify’s platform. Shopify offers a treasure trove of free apps and tools. We took full advantage of them to enhance our store’s functionality without breaking the bank. We only invested in premium apps when they addressed a specific need that couldn’t be met with a free alternative. Keeping a watchful eye on inventory costs has been essential. We’ve implemented strategies to avoid both overstocking and understocking. This helps us minimize carrying costs and ensure we always have the right products in stock to meet customer demand. Visit Leather Skin Shop here 3. Pixpa: $4.80 per month Pixpa Best for portfolios Very affordable plans Connect with socials Great for photographers Free trial available Paid Plans: $8 - $25 / month Pros Mobile-friendly templates Specialist website builder Galleries for sharing and proofing Cons No free plan Limited photos on cheapest plan Basic features and customization Starting at $4.80 per month , Pixpa is an ideal cheap website builder for visual and creative businesses, particularly if you’re looking to build a portfolio or artist website. Its cheapest plan gives you access to basic features, including SEO and social media integration, but its primary selling point is that its includes online selling capabilities. For context, GoDaddy’s equivalent ecommerce plan will set you back $23.99 per month. That said, Pixpa’s sales features pale in comparison to other platforms , such as Shopify. Its analytics and accounting tools are limited, so you’ll struggle to scale your online store as successfully as you would with another option. It’s for this reason that I recommend Pixpa for portfolios and simple sites . How Much Does Pixpa Cost? Pixpa offers four premium plans to choose between: Basic, Creator, Professional, and Advanced. When billed annually, you’ll receive a 40% discount on the plans. If you’re a student or educator in a creative field, you’ll be able to get a 55% price cut. Annual prices are as follows: Basic $4.80 per month Creator $9 per month Professional $12 per month Advanced $15 per month After the first year, plans will return to the regular price: $8 per month $15 per month $20 per month $25 per month Even on its cheapest plan, Pixpa doesn’t charge any transaction fees, making it an attractive option for new sellers. Before you decide what plan to pick, you can test out Pixpa’s editor and tools with its 15-day free trial . Are Pixpa’s Plans Affordable Long Term? Our testing found Pixpa’s price range to be very competitive in comparison to other builders’. It’s fairly similar in price to GoDaddy, but Pixpa’s focus is on creatives and portfolio sites especially. The cheapest Basic plan is pretty limited (it only allows up to 10 pages and 200 gallery images), so I recommend starting with at least the Creator plan to unlock extra features, including unlimited pages/images and blogging functionality. There’s around a $5 difference between each plan, which lightens the strain of upgrading as your portfolio begins to expand. Is Pixpa Good Value for Money? Pixpa’s Basic plan does offer a lot of the standard features you’d expect from a website builder, such as SEO, which is good considering the low price point. But you’ll need to upgrade to at least the Creator plan ($15/mo) for unlimited website pages and images, blogging functionality, a free domain name, advanced SEO like 301 redirects, and additional selling tools, such as coupons. For advanced features like abandoned cart recovery, you’ll have to sign up for the Advanced plan, which costs $25 per month (billed annually). To get the most out of your money, I recommend choosing the Professional plan since this unlocks almost every feature. My Verdict: Is Pixpa worth the money? With pretty cheap premium plans, Pixpa won’t break the bank. However, I’d argue it’s only worth spending your money on Pixpa’s website builder if you want to launch a specialist, creative website. Its features and designs target portfolios in particular, so you won’t have the flexibility provided by other builders which cater to a wider range of industry types 4. GoDaddy: $10.99 per month GoDaddy Best for beginners Good for beginners Speedy setup Integrated booking tools Free plan available Paid Plans: $10.99 - $23.99 / month Pros Get online in seconds Strong social media marketing tools Excellent 24/7 support Cons Limited editor Lacks quality templates Not for advanced designers GoDaddy is an incredibly cheap website builder, with premium plans starting at $10.99 per month, as well as a free-forever plan. GoDaddy’s fast and intuitive onboarding process makes it the best option for beginners looking to get online quickly – our first-hand testing found it could generate a website in less than 30 seconds. Its editor is super straightforward to understand, and while GoDaddy lacks many stylish designs or creative capabilities, the simple elements make GoDaddy a good option for content-heavy sites. How Much Does GoDaddy Cost? You can get started with GoDaddy’s free-forever plan, but it comes with ads and limited storage. I recommend opting for one of GoDaddy’s three premium plans instead: Basic, Premium, and Commerce. When you commit to a year’s subscription, an introductory discount of between 40% and 50% will be applied, depending on the GoDaddy plan you choose. Plus, GoDaddy has reinstated its 12-month free trial Microsoft professional email, which would set you back $95. The introductory prices (when billed annually) are as follows: Basic $10.99 per month Premium $16.99 per month Commerce $23.99 per month After your first year is up, the plans increase to their original pricing: $16.99 per month $29.99 per month $34.99 per month Ecommerce sellers should also expect to pay GoDaddy a flat rate transaction fee of 2.7% + $0.30 per sale. Are GoDaddy’s Plans Affordable Long Term? GoDaddy’s pricing is very affordable overall, but you’ll need the $23.99 per month (billed annually) Commerce plan to unlock ecommerce functionality. If you’re just after a basic site and don’t need to sell products, you’ll be fine with the Basic or Premium plan. Is GoDaddy Good Value For Money? GoDaddy’s plans are very affordable, though it recently increased its prices slightly across all plans. For example, the Basic plan used to cost $9.99 but it now costs $10.99. Still, GoDaddy is cheap and it’s the best value for money builder on this list! You get a decent amount of features for the price point, and its ecommerce plan is a cheaper alternative to builders like Wix or Squarespace. Plus, GoDaddy offers a free plan which you can stay on for as long as you’d like. However, I’d recommend upgrading to remove ads and unlock additional features, such as ecommerce. My verdict: Is GoDaddy worth the money? GoDaddy tops our research when it comes to value for money, so it’s absolutely worth the money. Its plans are incredibly cheap, but you can find your feet with its editor and tools through the free plan first. And, even if you want to sell online on the Commerce plan, the $23.99 per month price tag is still cheaper than other ecommerce builders, like Shopify. 5. Squarespace: $14.40 per month with our code “WBE10” Squarespace Best for creatives For creatives Beginner-friendly editor Stunning designs Free trial available Paid Plans: $16 - $99 / month Pros Easiest website builder Improved AI tools Drag-and-drop editor Cons No autosave when editing No free plan Slow site loading speed Squarespace is the most expensive website builder on this list, at $14.40 per month with our code “WBE10.” However, Squarespace was scored as the easiest platform to use in our testing due to its highly intuitive editor. Squarespace is the best choice if you’re a creative in need of affordable website design, thanks to its stunning templates and elements. How Much Does Squarespace Cost? Squarespace’s pricing consists of four plans: Basic, Core, Plus, and Advanced. Each annual plan provides a free custom domain and students are eligible for a 50% discount. And when you use the code “WBE10” at checkout, you’ll save an extra 10%, which takes each plan to the following price: Basic $14.40 per month Core $20.70 per month Plus $35.10 per month Advanced $89.10 per month After your first year with Squarespace, your plan will renew at the standard annual price: $16 per month $23 per month $39 per month $99 per month Squarespace’s cheapest plan charges a 2% transaction fee, which is waived upon upgrading to the Core plan or above. You can get started with Squarespace’s 14-day free trial to see whether it’s right for you. Are Squarespace’s Plans Affordable Long Term? After Squarespace’s pricing change this year, you can start selling on its cheapest $14.40 per month plan, meaning there’s less financial pressure to upgrade quickly. However, there is now a bigger jump between plan prices, with the Advanced plan way over double the price of the Plus plan. This makes it much harder to scale your business smoothly. Still, once you upgrade to the Core plan, Squarespace softens the blow by removing transaction fees entirely and providing additional sales features, such as unique discounts. Is Squarespace Good Value for Money? If you’re looking for a cheap website builder, Squarespace is great value for money , sitting just behind GoDaddy in our research. On paper, this might seem surprising considering its cheapest plan is more expensive than Hostinger or Pixpa. But, you get a lot for your money with Squarespace – the majority of features, including ecommerce, are available on the cheapest Basic plan. Read the Q&A below to discover an insightful first-hand experience with Squarespace: Q&A 1. What appealed to you the most about Squarespace’s pricing? 2. Which Squarespace features do you think are great value for money? 3. Do you have any budgeting tips for other businesses who are considering using Squarespace? Check out Lauren’s website here My verdict: Is Squarespace worth the money? Second to GoDaddy, Squarespace is one of the best value for money builders we’ve tested. So, while its plans are slightly more money than GoDaddy, you unlock a lot of advanced features and access to Squarespace’s easy-to-use editor and designs. If you’re looking to build a visually stunning website, I’d recommend choosing Squarespace. Which Is the Cheapest Website Builder for Ecommerce? Hostinger’s Business Website Builder plan is the cheapest entry point for selling online at $3.99 per month. However, after the introductory offers have passed, Shopify’s $5 Starter plan is the most affordable option, although it doesn’t allow users to build a full website (it’s better for selling on your socials). See the table below for a quick comparison of the cheapest ecommerce plans available: Hostinger Pixpa Shopify Squarespace GoDaddy Cheapest ecommerce plan (intro offer) $3.99/mo $4.80/mo $5/mo $14.40/mo $23.99/mo Cheapest ecommerce plan (regular price) $13.99/mo $8/mo $5/mo $16/mo $34.99/mo Can You Build a Website For Free? It’s possible to publish a site without paying if you use a free website builder, such as Wix or GoDaddy. Free-forever plans are a great choice for businesses that don’t want to commit to a plan on a long-term basis. That said, even the most generous free plans come with considerable drawbacks. On most, you should expect: Limited storage space A website builder-branded domain name Distracting ads on your site These drawbacks can definitely be overlooked for certain purposes, such as temporary wedding websites or school projects. However, if you’re making anything more serious than these, it’s best to use free plans to familiarize yourself with the builder, and plan to upgrade in the future. Which Free Website Builder Plan Should You Use? Of the five cheap builders on this list, GoDaddy is the only one that offers a free plan . Wix, our top rated website builder for 2025, also has a free-forever plan with an impressive range of features to help you build a website and get found online. You’ll have access to some of its top AI tools and its AI website builder, and even be able to customize your site with apps from its app marketplace. Since I haven’t covered Wix in this article, here’s a quick snapshot of what the platform offers: Wix The all-in-one powerhouse for websites Caters to all industries For all skill levels All-in-one platform Free plan available Paid Plans: $17 - $159 / month Pros 2,000+ free templates Drag-and-drop editor Built-in email marketing Cons Can’t switch template once live Can be slow to load and use Limited storage space Hidden Costs to Watch Out For Website builders offer attractive deals to new users, although renewal rates and add-on feature costs raise the overall price after the first year. Here are the top costs to watch out for: Domain renewal rates: While the first year is often free, a custom domain will then cost between $20 and $30 per year. Plan renewal rates: After your first term is up, you’ll be charged the full price for your website builder plan. This can make your costs increase by 40% or 50%. Transaction fees: Transaction fees vary between platforms. Some platforms lower or waive these charges with plan upgrades or when using their native payment solutions, such as Shopify Payments. Committing to a 24 or 48-month term will extend the discount period, providing the best deal. However, this method will require you to pay the full amount upfront. What Factors Should I Consider When Choosing a Cheap Website Builder? When choosing a cheap platform to build your website with, you should evaluate three primary factors: the entire overall cost (including renewal increases), your non-negotiable features (like ecommerce or blogging), and your technical skill level. Review the website builder’s pricing and plans – Is there an affordable option that suits your needs? Is there a free trial or plan to test things out first? Is there a steep price increase between plans or can you scale your website steadily? Assess your website’s “must-haves” – For example, if you want to create an online store, you’ll need a plan that lets you accept payments. Thinking about writing content? Then your plan should include blogging tools. Shop around to find the right fit for your needs, or consider upgrading to a higher plan if you need access to certain features. See which builder suits your style of learning and skill level – Is the website builder easy to use? Are there templates that you like? Can you design the website you want to create with the builder’s editor? Is there support available if you need a helping hand? To help you choose, I’ve included an overview of the pricing you can expect with each of the website builders on this list, including any deals you should be aware of: Starting price (per month, billed annually) Renewal price (per month, billed annually) Introductory deals Free trial/ plan? Hostinger $2.99 $10.99 • 3 months free • Free custom domain for 1 year 7-day trial Shopify $5 $5 • $1 per month for 3 months 3-day trial Pixpa $4.80 $8 • Free custom domain for 1 year 15-day trial GoDaddy $10.99 $16.99 • Free professional email for 1 year Free plan Squarespace $14.40 with code “WBE10” $16 • Free custom domain for 1 year 14-day trial How Did We Test and Rank These Cheap Website Builders? We put every website builder through our rigorous testing process to create our data-backed recommendations. We want you, our readers, to have all of the information you need to make an informed decision when it comes to deciding which website builder to pick. To do that, our team has carried out over 300 hours of research in the areas you care about most. Our research methodology is broken down into six categories: Pricing Website functionality Design features Help and support Reputation User experience To determine our list of the cheapest website builders, we primarily look at the pricing section of our research. In particular, we’ve assessed the average pricing plans for each builder, the jump between plans, the quality of features versus price, and reviewed the cheapest introductory deals on the market. I personally built a website with each of these builders to test its features and limits, meaning I can share my unique experiences throughout the article. *The image above depicts our general website builder rankings for 2025. Our order of recommendation in this article is slightly different, since this article focuses on pricing. Final Verdict: Which Cheap Website Builder Should You Pick? I’ve shared the cheapest introductory deals across five top website builders to help preserve your budget. Hostinger is the cheapest website builder out there, starting from $2.99 per month with its Premium Website Builder plan. And for just $3.99 per month, you’ll gain access to its suite of AI features and ecommerce functionality. So, because of its easy-to-use platform, I highly recommend Hostinger for beginners. Just remember to keep an eye out for renewal prices and upgrade costs. The cheapest plan might only offer some of your website or business needs, but it can be a great place to start!
