COURSE DETAILS Entry Level Accountant Academy (7 CPE Credits) Learn How To Perform The Essential Tasks This course includes 4.5 hours of bit-size video lectures by Bill Hanna Excel Templates to practice what you see in the lectures. 25+ Quizzes To practice your learning along the way. 7 CPE Credits Of completion when you finish the course, which is a downloadable PDF you can share on Linkedin. 14 days Money back guarantee if you are not 100% satisfied! Course Description Entry-Level Accountant Academy - Learn How To Perform The Essential Tasks is a practical online course for anyone starting a career in accounting. In just 4.5 hours of video lessons across 3 modules , you'll learn to apply the Accounting equation , record revenues and expenses under US GAAP , and make end-of-period adjustments with confidence. You’ll also master the Accounts Payable process —from invoice approval to payments—and get hands-on with QuickBooks and automation tools to streamline workflows. By the end of the course, you’ll be equipped with real-world, job-ready accounting skills that employers value—perfect for students, new hires, or career changers. After completing this course, the learner should be able to: Define the Accounting Equation and apply it to the various types of business transactions Apply US GAAP principles to revenues and expenses recording Identify revenue and costs adjustments at the end of the financial period Distinguish between all tasks in Accounts Payable – including vendor invoice recording, approval, and payment processes in an accounts payable system. Apply Accounting rules in the implementation of systems (QuickBooks) to streamline the financial processes Course Details Duration: 4.5 hours Access Duration: Lifetime Field of Study: Accounting CPE Credits - NASBA : 7 Knowledge Level: Basic Delivery Method: QAS Self-Study (on-demand video lectures) Prerequisites: High school degree or equivalent Advanced Prep: None Controller Academy LLC is registered with the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) as a sponsor of continuing professional education on the National Registry of CPE Sponsors. State boards of accountancy have final authority on the acceptance of individual courses for CPE credit. Complaints regarding registered sponsors may be submitted to the National Registry of CPE Sponsors through its web site: www.nasbaregistry.org Accounting College Students If you are in your final year of college and want to learn how Accounting works in a real company setting. Staff & Senior Accountants You’ve started to learn the ropes of Accounting, but want to push your career forward to a Manager/Controller role in the next 1-2 years! Starting a Bookkeeping Business If you have a high school degree or similar, and want to start a remote Bookkeeping business! Career Switchers! You are planning a career switch into Accounting. You’ve either taken a couple of Accounting courses or worked in Accounting field in the past. Business Owners You own a small/med business and want to learn the process of setting up the Accounting process in Quickbooks. *Refund Policy: We encourage you to sample a course (watch a few lectures, browse the materials) within the 14 days. That’s what the guarantee is for. If you’re not feeling it, just let us know early — before you go through the entire course and grab the certificate. You must consume less than 25% of the course videos, otherwise, we may issue a prorated refund. If the course is viewed 100%, no refunds are allowed. STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 ABOUT ME I have had 18+ years of progressive roles in Accounting and Finance, both in Manufacturing and SAAS. I summarize my experiences in my courses, so you don’t have to spend years learning them!! Get Access to the Course (4.9 out of 5) This course covers all accounting aspects such as Debit and Credit rules, Billing, Payroll, AR, AP, Moth-end close and the most important Financial report analysis. “Highly recommended to those who really want to reach at the peak of your accounting profession”. Munaf Patel Staff Accountant Bill does an excellent job explaining key concepts, supported by clear examples. As someone who speaks English as a second language, I found his explanations to be easy to comprehend Carlos Student You make all finance related topics so easy to understand. It's help me a lot in my day to day work. And in my interview preparation as well. Thank you for making these videos. Sourav Sahu Manager Bill's lecture does not take much of my time as it is very short and straightforward. The best part is that he includes a real-world application of the most important principles, which is indeed effective. The price is worth investing. Gerald Accountant I think this course is very useful and helpful. Bill's teaching is concise and to the point of which I'm using right now to help self-learn the skills I need before I start my new role as a Junior Financial Controller! Kevin Junior Financial Controller That is probably the best & most succinct explanation of these 3 ratios. Look forward to watching more of your videos. Alex Davidson Student Read more reviews here. No worries, we’ve got you covered :) Got Questions?
