5 most anticipated headphones of 2026: AirPods Max 2, Samsung Galaxy Buds 4 and more Multiple sequels and one mysterious launch are on the horizon 2025 gave us plenty of noteworthy wireless headphones. Kickstarting things was the Beats Powerbeats Pro 2, “a huge improvement” that currently stand as the best workout headphones overall. The JBL Tour One M3 arrived shortly after and showed us why smart cases are the new “it” accessory. Then came the Nothing Headphone (1), which presented one of the coolest and most unique over-ear designs ever created. Category leaders like the Bose QuietComfort Ultra (Gen 2), Bowers & Wilkins Px7 S3, and Sony WH-1000xM6 soon followed. Lastly, the AirPods Pro 3 finally hit store shelves… after years of speculation. That’s a lot to process in 12 months, and there’s more to look forward to in the upcoming year. Leaks for Samsung’s and Sony’s impending flagship buds are popping up online. The rumor mill is continuously stirring up gossip on the next AirPods. There’s even chatter about a surprise true wireless debut at CES 2026. So, if you’re hyped about what the new year might bring us, kick back as Tom’s Guide breaks down the 5 most anticipated headphones of 2026. AirPods Max 2 Projected release window: Late 2026 Get instant access to breaking news, the hottest reviews, great deals and helpful tips. Wish list: Modular design, universal spatial audio, wireless ALAC The second-gen AirPods Max are coming, but it’s taking Apple forever to deliver them. Everyone with an Apple TV, iPhone, iPad or iMac/MacBook has a colossal wish list for the headphones. So do we (check out the 5 things we want to see from the AirPods Max 2). Let’s focus on what the trades are saying. Apple supply chain analyst Ming-Chi Kuo claims the AirPods Max 2 will be lighter and enter mass production in 2027, per MacRumors. Considering how past reports were wrong about the AirPods Pro 3 release date (several analysts predicted a 2026 launch), one can assume that Apple will announce the product at its September 2026 event. Other rumors indicate the headphones will carry a new H-Series processor and USB-C charging. Here is everything else we know so far about the AirPods Max 2. Shokz’s next-gen sports headphones Projected release window: Spring 2026 Wishlist: Improved touch controls, lossless audio, retractable design The word around town is that Shokz will showcase a brand-new “innovation” at CES 2026. Whether it’s bone conduction headphones or open earbuds remains unknown. Either way, we’re stoked for them. This device could benefit from something as simple as an adjustable clip-on, neck strap or on-ear design. Picture a retractable mechanism that provides a customary fit around the neck or ears. Usability is another area that could use some touching up, literally. Feedback on the OpenFit 2+’s touch controls has been terrible. Therefore, Shokz needs to prioritize this. We’re open to lossless audio, be it LDAC or Qualcomm’s aptX Adaptive/Lossless codec for lag-free Bluetooth streaming at a high bitrate. Sony WF-1000XM6 Projected release window: Summer 2026 Wishlist: 10-band customizable EQ, DSEE Ultimate, NFC Based on Sony’s headphone release history, the Mark VI wireless earbuds should be coming this summer. Expectations are for the WF-1000XM6 to gain the latest features introduced on the WH-1000XM6, including the 10-band customizable EQ, Auracast, Cinema Mode, and a mobile version of Sony’s V3 processor that strengthens audio and noise-canceling performance. But other additions must be implemented for the WF-1000XM6 to differentiate themselves from their over-ear sibling. According to The Walkman Blog, this may be the first Sony wireless audio product to receive DSEE Ultimate, an updated version of the company’s upscaled audio technology that will require a new chip with integrated AI. As for other envisioned extras, here are 5 things we want to see from the Sony WF-1000XM6. Sennheiser Momentum 5 Projected release window: TBD Wishlist: Bluetooth 5.4 with Auracast, spatial audio, upscaled design So we got the HDB 630, but it's not quite the successor to the family that we were thinking of. They're spectacular headphones, but they don't feel like a sequel rather than a new entry to the family. It isn’t far-fetched to think that the legacy audio brand has been hard at work on a successor, the Momentum 5. Upgrades to ANC, battery life, and sound quality are each a given. What isn’t? Spatial audio. Sennheiser’s proprietary AMBEO 3D audio format is used on the company’s soundbars – not headphones or earbuds. Having it on the Momentum 5 is imperative. In addition, Sennheiser has to develop a premium-looking design and include Auracast broadcasting for seamless switching between laptops/PCs, smartphones, and TVs. Samsung Galaxy Buds 4 Projected release window: Spring 2026 Wishlist: Enhanced AI functionality, revert to original design, universal 360 Audio It is do or die for Samsung’s true wireless series after the critical disappointments that were the Galaxy Buds 3 and Galaxy Buds 3 Pro. Recent leaks suggest the next-gen Galaxy Buds will retain the long-stem design (ugh) and boast new features, such as headtracking and voice controls. The latter could be employed by a third-party AI assistant. Speaking of which, we previously discussed 5 ways the Samsung Galaxy Buds 4 can revive the series and beat the AirPods, with AI being the biggest factor. The technology was decent at best on the previous Galaxy Buds models; ChatGPT and Google Gemini are far superior. Samsung must either fully commit to AI or ditch the novelty and focus more on enhancing brand hallmarks (e.g., active noise cancellation, Samsung Scalable Codec). That, and it needs to make 360 Audio accessible to ALL users. Follow Tom's Guide on Google News and add us as a preferred source to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. More from Tom's Guide A lifestyle journalist with an affinity for consumer products, Alex has over a decade of experience and has worked with popular publications such as Complex, Thrillist, Men’s Health, Gear Patrol, AskMen, and Hoop Magazine. He currently focuses on audio, reviewing the most coveted headphones in the market for both Tom’s Guide and Laptop Magazine. You must confirm your public display name before commenting Please logout and then login again, you will then be prompted to enter your display name.
