The Basics of Planting and Growing a Vegetable Garden For daily wit & wisdom, sign up for the Almanac newsletter. Finally, the Perfect Garden Seeds—From the trusted Old Farmer’s Almanac! Non-GMO, open-pollinated, high germination, sourced from American farms. Body This comprehensive guide covers how to start a vegetable garden from scratch, which vegetables to grow, and when to plant what. We’ve also added a “starter” garden plan consisting of easy-to-grow vegetables, companion planting techniques, and some lovely flowers! Let this year be the year that you grow a successful garden! Vegetable Gardening for Beginners Why garden, you ask? How about enjoying the best vegetables and fruit you’ve ever eaten? If you’ve never tasted garden-fresh food, you will be amazed by the sweet, juicy flavors and vibrant textures. There’s absolutely nothing quite like fresh veggies, especially if you grow them yourself—which you can! It may seem daunting initially, but gardening is a very rewarding hobby. On this page, we’ll highlight the basics of vegetable gardening and planning: how to pick the right site for your garden, how to choose a plot size, and how to select which vegetables to grow. Pick the Right Location Picking a good location for your garden is absolutely key. A subpar location can result in subpar veggies! Here are a few tips for choosing a good site: Sunny spot: Most vegetables need 6 to 8 hours of direct sunlight daily. A few veggies (mostly leafy ones) will tolerate some shade. Drains well and doesn’t stay wet: If you have poorly draining soil where water pools, plant veggies in a raised bed or raised row for improved drainage. Wet soil means wet roots, which can turn into rotted roots. If you have rocky soil, till and remove the rocks as they will interfere with root growth and make for weaker plants. Stable and not windy: Avoid places that receive strong winds that could knock over your young plants or keep pollinators from doing their job. Nor do you want to plant in a location that receives too much foot traffic or floods easily. Plant in a location that would make Goldilocks smile—somewhere “just right.” Nutrient-rich soil. Your soil feeds your plants. You’ll have poor, unhealthy plants if you have thin, nutrient-poor soil. Mix in plenty of organic matter to help your plants grow. See how to prepare your soil for vegetable plants. Choosing a Plot Size: Start Small! Remember: It’s better to be proud of a small garden than be frustrated by a big one! One of the most common errors beginners make is planting too much too soon—way more than anybody could ever eat or want! Unless you want to have zucchinis taking up residence in your attic, plan your garden with care. Start small, and only grow what you know you and your family will eat. Size of Garden If planting in the ground, a 10x10-foot garden (100 square feet) is a manageable size. Pick three to five of your favorite vegetables and buy three to five plants of each one. If planting in a raised bed, a 4x4-foot or 4x8-foot is a good beginner size. See our Raised Garden Bed Guide, which covers the benefits of raised beds, how to build a raised bed, and what type of soil to fill a raised bed with. If you want to go bigger, a 12x24-foot garden in the ground is probably the biggest a first-timer should go. For example, a garden that feeds a family of four could include three hills of yellow squash, one mound of zucchini, 10 assorted peppers, six tomato plants, 12 okra plants, a 12-foot row of bush beans, two cucumbers on a cage, two eggplants, six basil, one rosemary, and a few low-growing herbs such as oregano, thyme, and marjoram. Whatever the size of your garden: Every 4 feet or so, make sure that you have paths that allow you to access your plants to weed and harvest. Just ensure you can easily reach the row or bed center without stepping on the soil. Choosing Vegetables As a beginner, start by choosing easy vegetables that are also productive. Below, we’ve listed some of the easiest vegetables for beginners. Most are best started by seeds planted directly into the soil, unless noted. However, it would also be wise to contact your state’s Cooperative Extension Service to find out what plants grow best in your area. For example, if you live in an area with extremely hot weather, vegetables that prefer cooler temps may struggle. Top 10 Easiest Vegetables to Grow ( Tip: Click on a veggie’s name to see its detailed Growing Guide.) Lettuce Green beans Radishes Tomatoes (by transplant, i.e. small nursery plant) Zucchini Peppers (by transplant, i.e. small nursery plant) Beets Carrots Chard , Spinach , or Kale Peas Mix in flowers such as marigolds—which discourage pests, attract pollinators, and add some color! Five tips for choosing vegetables: Choose what you (and your family) like to eat. If no one likes Brussels sprouts, don’t bother planting them! But if your kids love green beans, put more effort into growing a big crop of beans. Be realistic about how many vegetables your family will eat. Be careful not to overplant, as you will only stretch yourself thin by trying to take care of tons of plants! (You could always give excess veggies away to friends, family, or the local soup kitchen.) Consider the availability of veggies at your grocery store. Maybe you want to grow tomatillos instead of cabbage or carrots, which are readily available in your area. Also, certain veggies are so far superior when homegrown that it’s almost a shame not to consider them (we’re thinking of garden lettuce and tomatoes). Also, homegrown herbs are far less expensive than grocery store herbs. Be prepared to take care of your plants throughout the growing season. Going on a summer vacation? Remember that tomatoes and zucchinis grow strongest in the middle of summer. If you’ll be gone for part of the summer, you need someone to look after the crops, or they will suffer. You could also just grow cool-season crops such as lettuce, kale, peas, and root veggies during the cooler months of late spring and early fall. Use high-quality seeds. Seed packets are less expensive than individual plants, but if seeds don’t germinate, your money—and time—are wasted. A few extra cents spent in spring for that year’s seeds will pay off in higher yields at harvest time. Where and When to Plant This process is easy if you are simply growing two or three tomato plants. But if you plan to grow a full vegetable garden, you need to consider: Where will each plant go? When will each vegetable need to be planted? Here are a few guidelines for arranging your vegetables: Not all vegetables are planted at the same time. Cool-season vegetables such as lettuce, broccoli, and peas grow in the cooler weather of early spring (and fall). Warm-season vegetables such as tomatoes, peppers, and cucumbers aren’t planted until the soil warms up in late spring and summer. Plant tall veggies (such as pole beans on a trellis or sweet corn) on the north side of the garden so they don’t shade shorter plants. If you do get shade in a part of your garden, save that area for small, cool-season veggies. If shade is unavoidable in parts of your garden, save those areas for cool-season vegetables that appreciate shade as the weather heats up. Most veggies are annuals (planted each year). If you’re planning on growing perennial crops such as asparagus, rhubarb, and some herbs, provide permanent locations or beds. Consider that some crops mature quickly and have a very short harvest period (radishes, bush beans). Other plants, such as tomatoes, take longer to produce but also produce for longer. The “days to maturity” are typically listed on the seed packet. Stagger plantings. You don’t want to plant all your lettuce seeds at the same time, or all that lettuce will need to be harvested at around the same time! Stagger plantings by a few weeks to keep ‘em coming! When to Plant What Every region has a different planting time based mainly on the weather, and every vegetable has its temperature preferences, too. See the Almanac’s Best Planting Dates—a gardening calendar customized to your local frost dates. Just enter your zip code (or postal code in Canada)! For specific planting information, see our individual Grow Guides for over 100 popular vegetables, herbs, and fruits. For each crop, we provide specific information about how to plant, grow, and harvest, including watering, fertilizing, and pest control! A Starter Beginner Garden Plan To help beginners, we thought it may be useful to see a garden design. Here is an example of a starter family garden using the common easy-to-grow vegetables listed above. It also features companion planting (placing plants that thrive together next to each other). You’ll see that we have given the garden decent-sized paths and mixed in a few herbs and flowers, too. Frankly, if we had grown this garden in our very first year, we would have been thrilled! By planning the garden this way, we have made it much easier for you to succeed. Click here to see the full plant list, number of plants, spacing, and spacing in rows. Garden Planning Tool The Old Farmer’s Almanac offers an excellent online garden planning tool that makes your garden planning fun and easy. With this tool, draw your garden plan on the computer and drop in your preferred vegetables, and it automatically calculates the proper spacing for each type of crop! This way, you don’t waste seeds or crowd your plants. The Garden Planner automatically pulls in the frost dates for your specific location, identifies easy vegetables, and even identifies companion plants. Then, you can print out your plan, and the tool reminds you of your seeding and harvesting dates for every vegetable! Plus, you’ll see many free garden plans for inspiration! Over time, you’ll see that this tool also provides crop rotation so that if you plan a second season, you can properly reposition your plants to avoid pests and disease. With new gardeners in mind, we offer a FREE week to try the Garden Planner—ample time to plan your first garden. Any questions or advice about starting your garden? Check out some of the comments below. Many of your questions may have been answered already by our Almanac community, or you are welcome to add your own comment. Happy gardening! About The Author Catherine Boeckmann Executive Digital Editor and Master Gardener Catherine Boeckmann is the Executive Digital Editor of Almanac.com, the website companion of The Old Farmer's Almanac. She covers gardening, plants, pest control, soil composition, seasonal and moon c... Getting Started Planning For a Garden Planting a Garden Plant Growing and Care Harvesting and Storing Vegetables End of Season Gardening More Like This 📣 The Gardening Club Just Got Better! 3 Deliveries, 10% Store Discount, and more! The Basics of Planting and Growing a Vegetable Garden For daily wit & wisdom, sign up for the Almanac newsletter. Finally, the Perfect Garden Seeds—From the trusted Old Farmer’s Almanac! Non-GMO, open-pollinated, high germination, sourced from American farms. Body This comprehensive guide covers how to start a vegetable garden from scratch, which vegetables to grow, and when to plant what. We’ve also added a “starter” garden plan consisting of easy-to-grow vegetables, companion planting techniques, and some lovely flowers! Let this year be the year that you grow a successful garden! Vegetable Gardening for Beginners Why garden, you ask? How about enjoying the best vegetables and fruit you’ve ever eaten? If you’ve never tasted garden-fresh food, you will be amazed by the sweet, juicy flavors and vibrant textures. There’s absolutely nothing quite like fresh veggies, especially if you grow them yourself—which you can! It may seem daunting initially, but gardening is a very rewarding hobby. On this page, we’ll highlight the basics of vegetable gardening and planning: how to pick the right site for your garden, how to choose a plot size, and how to select which vegetables to grow. Pick the Right Location Picking a good location for your garden is absolutely key. A subpar location can result in subpar veggies! Here are a few tips for choosing a good site: Sunny spot: Most vegetables need 6 to 8 hours of direct sunlight daily. A few veggies (mostly leafy ones) will tolerate some shade. Drains well and doesn’t stay wet: If you have poorly draining soil where water pools, plant veggies in a raised bed or raised row for improved drainage. Wet soil means wet roots, which can turn into rotted roots. If you have rocky soil, till and remove the rocks as they will interfere with root growth and make for weaker plants. Stable and not windy: Avoid places that receive strong winds that could knock over your young plants or keep pollinators from doing their job. Nor do you want to plant in a location that receives too much foot traffic or floods easily. Plant in a location that would make Goldilocks smile—somewhere “just right.” Nutrient-rich soil. Your soil feeds your plants. You’ll have poor, unhealthy plants if you have thin, nutrient-poor soil. Mix in plenty of organic matter to help your plants grow. See how to prepare your soil for vegetable plants. Choosing a Plot Size: Start Small! Remember: It’s better to be proud of a small garden than be frustrated by a big one! One of the most common errors beginners make is planting too much too soon—way more than anybody could ever eat or want! Unless you want to have zucchinis taking up residence in your attic, plan your garden with care. Start small, and only grow what you know you and your family will eat. Size of Garden If planting in the ground, a 10x10-foot garden (100 square feet) is a manageable size. Pick three to five of your favorite vegetables and buy three to five plants of each one. If planting in a raised bed, a 4x4-foot or 4x8-foot is a good beginner size. See our Raised Garden Bed Guide, which covers the benefits of raised beds, how to build a raised bed, and what type of soil to fill a raised bed with. If you want to go bigger, a 12x24-foot garden in the ground is probably the biggest a first-timer should go. For example, a garden that feeds a family of four could include three hills of yellow squash, one mound of zucchini, 10 assorted peppers, six tomato plants, 12 okra plants, a 12-foot row of bush beans, two cucumbers on a cage, two eggplants, six basil, one rosemary, and a few low-growing herbs such as oregano, thyme, and marjoram. Whatever the size of your garden: Every 4 feet or so, make sure that you have paths that allow you to access your plants to weed and harvest. Just ensure you can easily reach the row or bed center without stepping on the soil. Choosing Vegetables As a beginner, start by choosing easy vegetables that are also productive. Below, we’ve listed some of the easiest vegetables for beginners. Most are best started by seeds planted directly into the soil, unless noted. However, it would also be wise to contact your state’s Cooperative Extension Service to find out what plants grow best in your area. For example, if you live in an area with extremely hot weather, vegetables that prefer cooler temps may struggle. Top 10 Easiest Vegetables to Grow ( Tip: Click on a veggie’s name to see its detailed Growing Guide.) Lettuce Green beans Radishes Tomatoes (by transplant, i.e. small nursery plant) Zucchini Peppers (by transplant, i.e. small nursery plant) Beets Carrots Chard , Spinach , or Kale Peas Mix in flowers such as marigolds—which discourage pests, attract pollinators, and add some color! Five tips for choosing vegetables: Choose what you (and your family) like to eat. If no one likes Brussels sprouts, don’t bother planting them! But if your kids love green beans, put more effort into growing a big crop of beans. Be realistic about how many vegetables your family will eat. Be careful not to overplant, as you will only stretch yourself thin by trying to take care of tons of plants! (You could always give excess veggies away to friends, family, or the local soup kitchen.) Consider the availability of veggies at your grocery store. Maybe you want to grow tomatillos instead of cabbage or carrots, which are readily available in your area. Also, certain veggies are so far superior when homegrown that it’s almost a shame not to consider them (we’re thinking of garden lettuce and tomatoes). Also, homegrown herbs are far less expensive than grocery store herbs. Be prepared to take care of your plants throughout the growing season. Going on a summer vacation? Remember that tomatoes and zucchinis grow strongest in the middle of summer. If you’ll be gone for part of the summer, you need someone to look after the crops, or they will suffer. You could also just grow cool-season crops such as lettuce, kale, peas, and root veggies during the cooler months of late spring and early fall. Use high-quality seeds. Seed packets are less expensive than individual plants, but if seeds don’t germinate, your money—and time—are wasted. A few extra cents spent in spring for that year’s seeds will pay off in higher yields at harvest time. Where and When to Plant This process is easy if you are simply growing two or three tomato plants. But if you plan to grow a full vegetable garden, you need to consider: Where will each plant go? When will each vegetable need to be planted? Here are a few guidelines for arranging your vegetables: Not all vegetables are planted at the same time. Cool-season vegetables such as lettuce, broccoli, and peas grow in the cooler weather of early spring (and fall). Warm-season vegetables such as tomatoes, peppers, and cucumbers aren’t planted until the soil warms up in late spring and summer. Plant tall veggies (such as pole beans on a trellis or sweet corn) on the north side of the garden so they don’t shade shorter plants. If you do get shade in a part of your garden, save that area for small, cool-season veggies. If shade is unavoidable in parts of your garden, save those areas for cool-season vegetables that appreciate shade as the weather heats up. Most veggies are annuals (planted each year). If you’re planning on growing perennial crops such as asparagus, rhubarb, and some herbs, provide permanent locations or beds. Consider that some crops mature quickly and have a very short harvest period (radishes, bush beans). Other plants, such as tomatoes, take longer to produce but also produce for longer. The “days to maturity” are typically listed on the seed packet. Stagger plantings. You don’t want to plant all your lettuce seeds at the same time, or all that lettuce will need to be harvested at around the same time! Stagger plantings by a few weeks to keep ‘em coming! When to Plant What Every region has a different planting time based mainly on the weather, and every vegetable has its temperature preferences, too. See the Almanac’s Best Planting Dates—a gardening calendar customized to your local frost dates. Just enter your zip code (or postal code in Canada)! For specific planting information, see our individual Grow Guides for over 100 popular vegetables, herbs, and fruits. For each crop, we provide specific information about how to plant, grow, and harvest, including watering, fertilizing, and pest control! A Starter Beginner Garden Plan To help beginners, we thought it may be useful to see a garden design. Here is an example of a starter family garden using the common easy-to-grow vegetables listed above. It also features companion planting (placing plants that thrive together next to each other). You’ll see that we have given the garden decent-sized paths and mixed in a few herbs and flowers, too. Frankly, if we had grown this garden in our very first year, we would have been thrilled! By planning the garden this way, we have made it much easier for you to succeed. Click here to see the full plant list, number of plants, spacing, and spacing in rows. Garden Planning Tool The Old Farmer’s Almanac offers an excellent online garden planning tool that makes your garden planning fun and easy. With this tool, draw your garden plan on the computer and drop in your preferred vegetables, and it automatically calculates the proper spacing for each type of crop! This way, you don’t waste seeds or crowd your plants. The Garden Planner automatically pulls in the frost dates for your specific location, identifies easy vegetables, and even identifies companion plants. Then, you can print out your plan, and the tool reminds you of your seeding and harvesting dates for every vegetable! Plus, you’ll see many free garden plans for inspiration! Over time, you’ll see that this tool also provides crop rotation so that if you plan a second season, you can properly reposition your plants to avoid pests and disease. With new gardeners in mind, we offer a FREE week to try the Garden Planner—ample time to plan your first garden. Any questions or advice about starting your garden? Check out some of the comments below. Many of your questions may have been answered already by our Almanac community, or you are welcome to add your own comment. Happy gardening! About The Author Catherine Boeckmann Executive Digital Editor and Master Gardener Catherine Boeckmann is the Executive Digital Editor of Almanac.com, the website companion of The Old Farmer's Almanac. She covers gardening, plants, pest control, soil composition, seasonal and moon c... Getting Started Planning For a Garden Planting a Garden Plant Growing and Care Harvesting and Storing Vegetables End of Season Gardening More Like This 📣 The Gardening Club Just Got Better! 3 Deliveries, 10% Store Discount, and more!
