Insect & Pest Control Find a wide selection of pest, insect and rodent control products to choose from at Ace. From humane animal traps to organic repellents and chemical pest prevention eliminators, you'll find what you need to keep unwanted critters at bay. No-Kill Animal Control Solutions We provide no-kill, catch-and-release animal traps for a humane alternative to more harmful pest control solutions. Find an assortment of durable, assembly-free, live animal traps from brands like Havahart, ranging in size to trap animals big and small. Pest Prevention with Animal Repellents To repel rather than capture pest animals, consider buying an animal repellent. Most are harmless, and once set up, require little in the way of attention or maintenance. Shop a variety of natural pest repellents created with highly concentrated essential oils or secretions from predatory animals to keep creatures safely off your property. Effective Bird Deterrent Products Ace has a wide selection of bird deterrent options from brands like Bird-B-Gone. If you need to rid your home of pesky birds, shop our selection of bird repellents like bird spikes and scared-eye diverters, repelling balloons, deterring kits, and repellent gel. Rodent Control: Mice, Rats, Gophers and More Rodents are plentiful, and any number of moles, gophers, squirrels, rats, and mice can cause serious damage to your property. From tunnels that undermine the integrity of your yard, to foundational harm, short-circuited wires, ruined insulation and decimated food supplies, these crafty creatures can quickly become a homeowner's worst nightmare. Ace Hardware is here to help with brands like Tomcat. Browse an assortment of animal traps, including mole traps, rodent control systems, spring-loaded and glue-based mouse traps, as well as electronic options to keep rodents from harming your home. Insect Control and Prevention Prevention is the best form of pest control against an insect invasion. Find a range of bug killer and insect prevention products that keep irritating insects away. Shop torches, bug zappers, insect traps, spray repellents, fly swatters, and citronella candles from reputable brands like Raid, Cutter and others to find the right product for your needs. For serious insect infestations, browse on array of from Spectracide, BioAdvanced and others. Many liquid pesticides are non-toxic, created with essential oils and garlic to kill insects without harming you or your family. A granular insecticide is also a good option, helping to create a boundary between the outside and indoors, or applied in outdoor spaces to eliminate ants, fleas, and other creepy crawlers. Sign up for greener grass, less weeds, and fewer bugs with Ace YardRX subscription lawn care service Shop Pest Control Products at Ace Hardware Ace has your pest control under control. With a wide range of mechanical, chemical, and electronic products, we have solutions to keep flying insects, creepy crawlies, outdoor animals, and household pests away. Shop online and select quick shipping to your door or free in-store pickup at an Ace Hardware location near you.
