Continuing Education Last Chance Courses Get an early start on spring with January courses. Don’t miss out! These courses are starting soon. Secure your spot before enrollment closes. Starting Jan. 24-26 Starting Jan. 26 Featured Programs Check out our new and trending non-credit course and certificate programs for this semester. Choose an Area of Study Choose an Area of Study Choose an Area of Study AI, Data, & Technology Arts & Humanities Building Design & Construction Entrepreneurship Finance Fundraising Global & Public Affairs Hospitality & Events Management Human Capital Management Leadership & Management Marketing & PR Publishing, Writing & Media Project Management Real Estate Sports Why NYU SPS Continuing Education? Continuing Education Discounts Declare your certificate candidacy and enjoy a 10% discount on all future courses. Discounts cannot be combined. Explore More Frequently Asked Questions Continuing education refers to courses and programs designed for adult learners who want to gain new skills, enhance their knowledge, or advance their careers. Unlike academic programs where students earn credits toward degrees, CE offers non-credit classes that provide flexible, industry-focused training. Continuing education courses are classes designed for people who want to enhance their skills, knowledge, or professional credentials in addition to or instead of formal education. Continuing education encompasses a broad range of learning opportunities for adults who want to develop their knowledge and skills related to their career and/or personal life goals. Professional education focuses on improving skills and knowledge related to a specific profession. Learn more on the continuing education policies and procedures page . To enroll for courses online, you will need to create an NYU SPS account. Once you have created an account, you can browse through our courses. Click the "View" button to learn more about a course. Click the "Add to cart" button to save it in your cart. You can then click either the "Continue browsing" button to add more courses, or "Go to cart" to check out. Please check that your cart is correct, click "Proceed to checkout" and follow the instructions for payment and confirmation. You can also enroll by phone by calling (212) 998-7150. Tuition varies by course. Follow the link to the course registration page to view specific tuition details. Registration dates vary by semester—fall, spring, and summer. View course details for specific open semesters and sign up to be notified of upcoming registration dates. Yes, NYU SPS offers the following discounts: 10% off all future courses when you declare certificate candidacy 20% off for NYU alumni who have earned a degree 25% off for individuals over 65 20% off for military-affiliated students Please note that discounts cannot be combined. Contact Registration at sps.info@nyu.edu or (212) 998-7150 for registration assistance or questions. No, our certificates and courses are open enrollment. Declare candidacy by submitting a form, then begin the program by signing up for a required course. We provide information on required and elective courses on individual certificate program pages. No, only credit-bearing courses taken at the undergraduate or graduate level can be transferred to NYU degree programs. Certain degree programs may offer degree students course credit for completing specific related certificates. Declaring candidacy provides a 10% discount on all future NYU SPS continuing education courses and an NYU student photo ID, which grants access to NYU Libraries, NYU Computer Store discounts, and invitations to NYU SPS events. There is no requirement that students complete a certificate to be eligible for these benefits, although completion brings valuable learning and a certificate digital badge. Certifications are typically credentials granted by professional organizations. Several NYU SPS continuing education programs prepare students for (or are aligned with) industry certifications. Yes, earning continuing education certificates is worth it because they can increase your knowledge and skills, enhance your resume, increase your earning potential, and help you stay on top of the latest trends, information, and best practices in your industry and profession. Certificate pricing varies depending on the program, with most ranging between $2,500 and $12,420. For the most accurate and up-to-date pricing, we recommend visiting the specific certificate page you're interested in. Globally recognized digital badges verify your course or certificate accomplishments and allow you to showcase them on your resume or LinkedIn profile. After completing a course, students are awarded a course completion badge or a gold achievement course badge if they earn a grade of B or higher. If a student declares candidacy for a certificate program and achieves a grade of B or higher in all courses, they will receive a certificate badge upon completion. Each digital badge links to a verification page that can be shared with employers, peers, and hiring managers. Once a badge is awarded, we email you with instructions to view the badge and share it on LinkedIn.
