Solve problems. Grow your network. Accelerate your career. Image Blended Professional Certificate: Chief Digital Officer Incorporate game-changing innovation across your enterprise and maintain competitive advantage in the digital economy. In this timely certificate program, you’ll acquire the skills you need to promote digital and business transformation and ascend to the position of Chief Digital Officer. This certificate program is also available in Spanish. Image Blended Professional Certificate: Chief Product Officer Acquire the knowledge and skills you need to become an effective Chief Product Officer (CPO). Over the course of 12 months, you will learn to optimize your organization’s innovation processes, identify and prioritize solutions for complex product design challenges, and develop digital platforms that build loyal consumer bases. You will emerge prepared to lead while ensuring distinction, quality, performance, and returns. This certificate program is also available in Spanish. Image Blended Professional Certificate: Chief Sustainability Officer Discover what it takes to evolve, enhance, and implement sustainable systems in the present—for the future. In this intensive certificate program, you’ll enhance your knowledge of sustainability techniques, explore ways to formulate rigorous positions and arguments, and learn how to implement life-cycle sustainability assessments. The goal? To equip you with the expertise you need to become a Chief Sustainability Officer. This certificate program is also available in Spanish. Image Blended Professional Certificate: Chief Technology Officer Learn how to leverage the latest technical trends to fuel growth, enhance business processes, and drive powerful results. In this prestigious certificate program, you’ll hone the skills you need to assume the role of Chief Technology Officer and make a measurable impact on your organization’s innovation efforts. This certificate program is also available in Spanish. Image Blended Professional Certificate: Technology Leadership Program Through a blend of in-person and online sessions, you’ll explore exponential and digital technologies, innovative strategies, and best practices to drive disruption and evolve business models. The program emphasizes understanding and deploying innovations at scale, fostering a strategic mindset to create impactful solutions. Image Professional Certificate Program in Biotechnology & Life Sciences Discover how to leverage powerful new innovations in the fields of biotechnology and life sciences. In this intensive certificate program, you’ll explore the latest advances in a range of key areas—such as growth and metabolism, instability issues, process design, biochemical processing, and process validation—and access the tools you need to capitalize on these developments. Image Professional Certificate Program in Design & Manufacturing Acquire advanced strategies and frameworks for transforming your production processes. In this timely certificate program, you’ll explore the latest technologies that are revolutionizing the field of manufacturing, such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, and 3D printing—and learn how to apply them to create superior materials, reduce time to market, and add value to your bottom line. Image Professional Certificate Program in Digital Transformation in the AI Age Prepare to meet today’s digital challenges by assessing the key tools and strategies that are reshaping industries. In this comprehensive certificate program, you’ll learn to build a culture of innovation across your enterprise, and enhance your ability to leverage and capitalize on state-of-the-art technologies—from artificial intelligence to cloud computing to DevOps, and blockchain. This certificate program is also available in Spanish, Portuguese, and French. Image Professional Certificate Program in Industry 4.0 Secure a competitive advantage in Industry 4.0—the data-driven revolution that’s powering the proliferation of interconnected, digitally enabled manufacturing systems around the world. In this dynamic certificate program, you’ll acquire the state-of-the-art tools and strategies you need to reimagine your product operations, business models, and customer support solutions for the digital age. This certificate program is also available in Spanish. Image Professional Certificate Program in Innovation & Technology Enhance your competitive advantage with the latest technological knowledge and best practices from the university that’s globally recognized for science, technology, and innovation. In this popular certificate program, you’ll master timely strategies for developing, managing, and implementing proven innovation techniques and technologies. The goal? To help you boost your bottom line and excel in the digital economy. Image Professional Certificate Program in Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence Master the machine learning and artificial intelligence strategies that are transforming industries around the world in. In this built-for-impact certificate program, under the instruction of recognized leaders in the field, you’ll acquire the latest technical approaches for natural language processing, predictive analytics, deep learning, and more—and learn how to customize them to solve your unique business challenges. Image Professional Certificate in Strategic Technology Roadmapping and Innovation Keep pace in the digital economy by learning how to successfully implement powerful new technologies across your enterprise. In this certificate program, you’ll learn how to strategically boost and advance innovation by mastering a full range of tools and skills, including technology forecasting and roadmapping, innovation management, and data analytics. This certificate program is also available in Spanish. Image Professional Certificate Program in Sustainability Lead the charge toward a more sustainable future. In this innovative program, you’ll acquire the critical skills and expertise you need to create sustainable infrastructure systems, mitigate the impacts of climate change, and drive the advancement of eco-friendly technologies. The curriculum is particularly useful for those seeking to better execute sustainable practices within their organization or area of influence. This certificate program is also available in Spanish. Image Professional Certificate Program in Product Management Ready to master the entire product lifecycle from ideation to launch. Our Professional Certificate Program in Product Management equips you with the advanced tools, strategic frameworks, and data-driven methods needed to lead innovation and drive business growth. Master everything from product family architecture to digital platform design.
