Menu Get updated on our upcoming courses Get updated on our upcoming courses Close Choose your location Atlanta Baltimore Greater Boston Greater Cincinnati North Carolina Chicago Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Kansas City Los Angeles National Capital Region New York City Newark National Orlando Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Area Seattle St. Louis Buffalo Bay Area Data Engineering AI Native Business Intelligence Training This 15-week course prepares learners with a diverse skill set across key domains in the field of Data Analytics. Through an array of interactive labs, captivating lectures, and collaborative projects, individuals will gain practical experience in data analysis, mastering tools such as SQL, Excel, and End-to-End BI Solutions while learning how to structure and solve complex real-world problems with data. Recommended starting point for learners with previous tech work experience or coursework. Available in: Atlanta, Dallas, Denver, North Carolina Close AI Native Business Intelligence Training This course is currently offered in select locations. Candidates must live within commutable distance of the Per Scholas location to be eligible. Atlanta North Carolina Dallas Denver Systems Support AI-Enabled Healthcare IT Technician Training AI-Enabled Healthcare IT Technician offers the opportunity to earn the CompTIA A+ certification, equipping you with the knowledge to fill a wide range of entry-level technology jobs. Recommended starting point for learners with no previous tech work experience or coursework. Available in: Detroit, Greater Cincinnati, St. Louis Close AI-Enabled Healthcare IT Technician Training This course is currently offered in select locations. Candidates must live within eligible distance of the Per Scholas location to be eligible. Greater Cincinnati Detroit St. Louis Systems Support AI-Enabled IT Support Training in Western North Carolina Training IT Support in partnership with Wilkes Community College and AB Tech offers the opportunity to enroll in a Workforce Development Pathway through Wilkes Community College and AB Tech and earn the Google IT Support Professional Certificate and the CompTIA A+ certification, equipping you with the knowledge to fill a wide range of entry-level technology jobs. Open to learners within the ARC Region of North Carolina. Available in: North Carolina Close AI-Enabled IT Support Training in Western North Carolina Training This course is currently offered in select locations. Candidates must live within eligible distance of the Per Scholas location to be eligible. North Carolina Cloud AWS re/Start Courses & Training This 15-week skills development training prepares individuals for positions in the cloud through real-world, scenario-based learning, labs, and coursework. Currently offered online. Previous tech work experience or education preferred. Available in: Atlanta, Dallas, National Capital Region, New York City, Newark, North Carolina Cybersecurity Cybersecurity Analyst (Satellite) Training Satellite Cybersecurity Analyst courses offer the opportunity to earn the Cybersecurity Analyst Certification (CySA+) and the Splunk Core Certified User Certification, equipping you with fundamental concepts in security specialities and hands-on training to enter this ever growing field as a cybersecurity analyst, while staying closer to your neighborhood. These are taught in partnership with local organizations to allow us to reach a wider geography, eliminate onerous commutes and make our instruction more accessible throughout NYC. Available in: New York City Close Cybersecurity Analyst (Satellite) Training This course is currently offered in select locations. Candidates must live within eligible distance of the Per Scholas location to be eligible. New York City Cybersecurity Cybersecurity Analyst Training Cybersecurity Analyst offers the opportunity to earn the Cybersecurity Analyst Certification (CySA+) and Splunk Core Certified User Certification, equipping you with fundamental concepts in security specialties and hands-on training to enter this ever growing field as a cybersecurity analyst. Previous tech work experience or education preferred. Available in: Baltimore, Greater Boston, Indianapolis, Los Angeles, National Capital Region, New York City, Newark, Orlando, Philadelphia Cybersecurity Cybersecurity with AI Tools Training Cybersecurity with AI Tools offers the opportunity to earn the CompTIA Security+ certification and the Splunk Core Certified Power User certification, equipping you with fundamental concepts in security specialties and hands-on training to enter this ever growing field as an IT security analyst. Previous tech work experience or education preferred. Available in: Atlanta, Chicago, Columbus, Dallas, Detroit, Kansas City, North Carolina, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh Area, St. Louis Systems Support Data Center Technician with AI Tools Training Data Center Technician with AI Tools offers the opportunity to earn the CompTIA A+, OSHA 10-Hour General Industry, NFPA 70E, and Google IT Support Professional certifications, equipping you with the knowledge to fill a wide range of entry-level technology jobs. Recommended starting point for learners with no previous tech work experience or coursework. Available in: Atlanta, Columbus, Kansas City, Los Angeles, Phoenix, St. Louis Systems Support IT Support (Satellite) Training Satellite IT Support courses offer the opportunity to earn the Google IT Support Professional Certificate and the CompTIA A+ certification, equipping you with the knowledge to fill a wide range of entry-level technology jobs while staying closer to your neighborhood. These are taught in partnership with local organizations to allow us to reach a wider geography, eliminate onerous commutes and make our instruction more accessible throughout NYC. Per Scholas currently partners with Commonpoint Queens, Joan & Alan Bernikow JCC of Staten Island, the Stanley Isaacs Neighborhood Center, and Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation. Available in: New York City Close IT Support (Satellite) Training This course is currently offered in select locations. Candidates must live within eligible distance of the Per Scholas location to be eligible. New York City Systems Support IT Support & Security Fundamentals Training IT Support & Security Fundamentals offers the opportunity to earn the CompTIA A+ certification, equipping you with fundamental concepts in security specialties and hands-on training to gain the initial knowledge and skills to get started in an entry-level security-related role. You will also learn cyber security fundamentals and gain some hands-on experience to help you prepare for entry into a security career. Currently a hybrid-style course. Available in: Denver Close IT Support & Security Fundamentals Training This course is currently offered in select locations. Candidates must live within eligible distance of the Per Scholas location to be eligible. Denver Systems Support IT Support Training IT Support offers the opportunity to earn the Google IT Support Professional Certificate and the CompTIA A+ certification, equipping you with the knowledge to fill a wide range of entry-level technology jobs. Recommended starting point for learners with no previous tech work experience or coursework. Available in: Atlanta, Baltimore, Buffalo, Chicago, Columbus, Dallas, Detroit, Greater Boston, Greater Cincinnati, Houston, Indianapolis, Los Angeles, National, National Capital Region, New York City, Newark, North Carolina, Orlando, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Pittsburgh Area, Seattle, St. Louis Systems Support Salesforce Administrator Training Salesforce Administrator will provide learners with the opportunity to earn the Salesforce Administrator certification and a variety of Salesforce Trailhead Badges through rigorous remote training covering a variety of topics to prepare for entry-level Salesforce Administrator roles. Currently offered online. Suitable for all levels. Available in: Atlanta, Greater Boston, New York City, North Carolina, Pittsburgh Area Software Engineering Software Engineering Training The 15-week Software Engineering course dives deep into every aspect of software engineering - computer science, React, Node, design patterns & system architecture, and more. Previous knowledge recommended. Available in: Atlanta, New York City, Newark, North Carolina, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh Area Close Per Scholas Winter Break To recognize the hard work and commitment of our full Per Scholas team, Per Scholas will be closed from December 22, 2025, through January 1, 2026. This break is designed for all staff and learners to recharge and enjoy time off with family and friends. Communications will be limited during this period. Happy Holidays, and we look forward to continuing to unlock potential together in 2026!
