Our Platform uses various types of cookies, each of which has a specific function. Below you can manage your preferences. Technical Cookies These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through this Platform and to use some of its features, such as access to secure areas. Without these cookies, services you have asked for, like transactional pages and secure login accounts, would not be possible. Functionality Cookies These cookies serve a variety of purposes related to the presentation, performance and functionality of this Platform. Their overall purpose, however, is to enhance visitors’ experience and enjoyment of this Platform. For example, some of these cookies enable visitors to specify language, product or other platform preferences. Analytical Cookies These cookies, including those from third parties, are used to collect information about how visitors use our Platform. The information gathered does not identify any individual visitor and is aggregated. It includes the number of visitors to our Platform, the platforms that referred them to our Platform and the pages that they visited on our Platform. We use this information to help run our Platform more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on our Platform. Advertising Cookies These cookies, including those from third parties, are aimed at creating profiles related to you and are used to deliver adverts more relevant to you and your interests in line with your preferences expressed while surfing the web. They are also used to limit the number of times you see an advertisement as well as help to evaluate the effectiveness of advertising and promotion. They are usually placed by advertising networks with our permission. They remember that you have visited a platform and this information is shared with other organisations such as advertisers. Social Cookies These cookies are third party cookies (e.g. Facebook) that allow you to interact with social media platforms. The companies that serve these cookies may also use your information to serve targeted advertising on other platforms. Third party cookies are cookies from sites or web servers other than our own, which are also used for the purposes of those third parties. For more information about the cookies used on our site, their characteristics and how to manage your consent to their use, you can consult our Cookie Policy. By clicking “Save and close” you declare that you consent to the use of cookies according to the above preferences. By clicking "Accept all" you declare that you consent to the use of all cookies stated above. Our Platform uses various types of cookies, each of which has a specific function. Below you can manage your preferences. Technical Cookies These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through this Platform and to use some of its features, such as access to secure areas. Without these cookies, services you have asked for, like transactional pages and secure login accounts, would not be possible. Functionality Cookies These cookies serve a variety of purposes related to the presentation, performance and functionality of this Platform. Their overall purpose, however, is to enhance visitors’ experience and enjoyment of this Platform. For example, some of these cookies enable visitors to specify language, product or other platform preferences. Analytical Cookies These cookies, including those from third parties, are used to collect information about how visitors use our Platform. The information gathered does not identify any individual visitor and is aggregated. It includes the number of visitors to our Platform, the platforms that referred them to our Platform and the pages that they visited on our Platform. We use this information to help run our Platform more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on our Platform. Advertising Cookies These cookies, including those from third parties, are aimed at creating profiles related to you and are used to deliver adverts more relevant to you and your interests in line with your preferences expressed while surfing the web. They are also used to limit the number of times you see an advertisement as well as help to evaluate the effectiveness of advertising and promotion. They are usually placed by advertising networks with our permission. They remember that you have visited a platform and this information is shared with other organisations such as advertisers. Social Cookies These cookies are third party cookies (e.g. Facebook) that allow you to interact with social media platforms. The companies that serve these cookies may also use your information to serve targeted advertising on other platforms. Third party cookies are cookies from sites or web servers other than our own, which are also used for the purposes of those third parties. For more information about the cookies used on our site, their characteristics and how to manage your consent to their use, you can consult our Cookie Policy. By clicking “Save and close” you declare that you consent to the use of cookies according to the above preferences. By clicking "Accept all" you declare that you consent to the use of all cookies stated above.
