#1 What is the most profitable electrical skill in the industry? Solar, Lightning protection, I&C, Communications, Automation, Residential construction, Others? What skill has the biggest demand for people? #2 A good experienced Trouble Shooting Specialist. For Example: Customer today called, been w/o A/C for 4 days( We've had a lot of bad weather & lightning storms) No power to 3 phase A/C Condenser. He originally called a big ad out of the Yellow Book, ARS aka, American Residential Service, A/C Tech said no power & then called their house electricians(aka Rip Off) House Electricians said wire was cut & wanted to cut out sheetrock etc. to look for bad splice or wire. He even was walking on the roof 3 stories up. So, I show up and find a 100a Fused 3 phase disconnect outside, next to 2 other 240 v 40 cir. single phase panels. One 3 phase Condenser is perfectly OK, the other is dead. So, I'm asking where the other breaker panel is? HO Says, there isn't one. No one else know of one or ever seen one. HO has lived there for 10 years. I said, "I'll find it!" An Hour later, after opening every cabinet & closet, 8000ft/sq house, I find a 100a Zinsco panel, in an attic closet buried behind boxes and winter clothes, mounted 2 feet AFF. 3P 30a Breaker had tripped. HO was ready and willing to run new wires, tear out whatever necessary, at what ever cost, to have a cool master bedroom tonight! I knew what I was looking for, I knew I'd find it and I told the HO I would. This HO is a Multi Millionaire, Trust fund family money, and I'll charge him the same as a poor customer on Social Security. #3 Design and Consultation is by far #1. Project Bidding is likely #2. Private Third-Party Inspection is perhaps #3. People that get paid for what they know make much more and provide much more profit to an organization than what can be made for what you can actually do. #4 Jeff Weissman Electric said: A good experienced Trouble Shooting Specialist. Took the words right out of my mouth. Electrical installer's are a dime a dozen (sorry), but a troubleshooter is a rare cat, and is worth a King's ransom. I could hire guys all day long to work on an electrical construction job, but it's very hard to get a good guy for a service truck. Even when you do find a good trouble man/service guy, finding one that's "normal" (family man, not a drunk, stable social life, etc) can be a challenge. They almost don't exist. #5 I don't think you'd have any trouble finding a good trouble shooter if your willing to pay. I'm an E&I Electrician for a large industrial plant and my job is primarily trouble shooting. Anything from PLC's, VFD's, to Instrumentation, and general power and lighting. I'd leave in a heart beat if a General contractor offered a decent wage. Problem is the top wage for that kind of work never seems to be much over $18-20.00 #6 khixxx said: What is the most profitable electrical skill in the industry? Keeping yourself and others safe and happy to work many more profitable days. I also agree that trouble shoot guys are pretty rare around these parts. #7 solaeros said: I don't think you'd have any trouble finding a good trouble shooter if your willing to pay. I'm an E&I Electrician for a large industrial plant and my job is primarily trouble shooting. Anything from PLC's, VFD's, to Instrumentation, and general power and lighting. I'd leave in a heart beat if a General contractor offered a decent wage. Problem is the top wage for that kind of work never seems to be much over $18-20.00 Yes, the factories and industries are where good troubleshooters are born and bred, in my estimation. A factory maintenance man or factory electrician are among the perfect candidates to drive a service truck for an electrical contractor. Trouble is, working within the four walls of a factory kind of spoils a guy. Take that however you want to. #8 solaeros said: I don't think you'd have any trouble finding a good trouble shooter if your willing to pay. I'm an E&I Electrician for a large industrial plant and my job is primarily trouble shooting. Anything from PLC's, VFD's, to Instrumentation, and general power and lighting. I'd leave in a heart beat if a General contractor offered a decent wage. Problem is the top wage for that kind of work never seems to be much over $18-20.00 No doubt. I use to do E&I, I left to work for a EC that had lots of Prevailing wage jobs $36/hr. well about 2 years later I am back to normal wage $18/hr I lasted about 3 months. I am back at I&C. I left E&I because I would get bored. I would walk the plant aimlessly looking and searching for potential problems. oh yes those truck drives a crossed town are what I miss the best. Construction there was always something to do. e57 Senior Member #9 I too would also say troubleshooting, but my personal opinion on it is that if you can design a circuit you can troubleshoot one of equal to the same complexity. I guess I would also differ in the idea that they are "born" or "bred". Anyone capable of doing a simple algebra problem can be TAUGHT to troubleshoot IMO. The problem is in finding one willing to learn, or for that matter take on the reponsibility of doing it once they do. A lot of people don't want the challenge after being generally discouraged from a wide range of hassle that can come along with the task. Service calls have other issues that I am not too fond of - driving, off-hours work, picky and impatient people, locating nearly impossible to find repair parts - if it were not for those things I would like it... #10 if you know how to troubleshoot you deserve more money.anybody can run pipe and pull wire.but if you know the how and why it works is the key .but having the pleasuare of seeing the coustumers happy faces when you tell them you fixed the problem .then you show them then bill and the call you a theif. that puts the icing on the cake. #11 I agree that troubleshooting skills in a worker are harder to come by, but I don't know that it is the most profitable skill in the long run. Job for job it is, but install jobs will outnumber trouble shooting 5-1, at least. If you have a good man or crew that can work fast and right (not necessarily in that order :wink: ) job after job, your profits will ballance out with the more profitable occasional high-dollar troubleshoot and repair. God-bless the EC that has both. #12 Here's a skill I don't have that I wish I had... the ability to direct people. I can tell guys what we need to do, but if they don't, I'm helpless. For this reason, I try to surround myself with people that are pretty much self motivated and do the things they're supposed to do more days than not. #13 Actually I think the most profitable skill is to get and keep a job. you won't make much profit with out a job. #14 khixxx said: What is the most profitable electrical skill in the industry? Solar, Lightning protection, I&C, Communications, Automation, Residential construction, Others,............ I don't really know, but I've watched an electrical inspector guy a couple of towns away from me make an incredible living by "drive-bys", "rubber stamping", and other incredibly incompetent shenanigans for years now. The building officials put up with him, the unscrupulous contractors worship the ground he doesn't show up on (yet somehow "sees" the job and passes it), the pocos fine him 250.00 per fraudulent inspection, but can't or won't stop him,.....and wow!! does he make money...$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ way over $125,000.00 per year. What a racket. No body watching. Shame. #15 mdshunk said: Here's a skill I don't have that I wish I had... the ability to direct people. I can tell guys what we need to do, but if they don't, I'm helpless. For this reason, I try to surround myself with people that are pretty much self motivated and do the things they're supposed to do more days than not. I hear ya, my man...I hear ya. I can do all day long, but I seem to have trouble passing it on to others, or getting out of them what I need. I had a helper once who is now an electrician with a former employee ( I moved on, not him) that I just don't have the heart to make him an offer. He is too valuable to my former boss and I can't do that to him. e57 Senior Member #16 mdshunk said: Here's a skill I don't have that I wish I had... the ability to direct people. I can tell guys what we need to do, but if they don't, I'm helpless. For this reason, I try to surround myself with people that are pretty much self motivated and do the things they're supposed to do more days than not. I don't have that problem - mine is that I have a tendacy to tick them off though - and ya know - thats just tough.... "Less talk - more movement" #17 mdshunk said: Yes, the factories and industries are where good troubleshooters are born and bred, in my estimation. A factory maintenance man or factory electrician are among the perfect candidates to drive a service truck for an electrical contractor. Trouble is, working within the four walls of a factory kind of spoils a guy. Take that however you want to. I can't argue that being a maintenance electrician in a plant/ factory can spoil a guy. I see the same components and systems, day in and day out. I don't see what you and others see on a daily basis working out in the 'real world'..:grin:. I used too, but hey, if you don't use it ya loose it right? Which is why I am ALWAYS on here reading and learning for the sake of continuing ed'! #18 The hardest skill I have ever seen to obtain and the most valuable is troubleshooting. It requires knowledge not only of what you are working on, but how other things interact with it. I told my stepson, if you always want a job, be a good troubleshooter. No matter if it is electrical, HVAC, computers, office staff or the stock market. If you can identify the root cause of the problem and correct it, you will never go hungry. #19 Jeff Weissman Electric said: I find a 100a Zinsco panel, in an attic closet buried behind boxes and winter clothes. This HO is a Multi Millionaire, Trust fund family money, and I'll charge him the same as a poor customer on Social Security. Here we have a panel in a clothes closet. Unsafe situation. Multi Millionaire. Customer with to much money. The most profitable electrical skill is the ability to recognize an opportunity. The second most profitable skill is the ability to take advantage of it ( sales technique ) :grin: Last edited: zog Senior Member #20 The electrical testing industry needs people and they typically payalot more than what your contractors do, but again, you are getting paid for what you know so you better be sharp. Just about every NETA company I know is looking for people. www.netaworld.org
