Free online tutoring in Houston Get free tutoring for eligible students across Houston neighborhoods—from Third Ward to Alief, Gulfton to East End. 24/7 academic and homework help for grades 6–12 from expert online tutors. Calculus Geometry SAT and ACT Prep College Essay Writing Math Science English Algebra Our students love us 😍 Why Choose Online Tutoring in Houston? ✅ Free tutoring for all low-income middle and high school students ✅ Get one-on-one support from a personalized tutor ✅ 24/7 homework help available for middle and high school students across Houston ✅ Flexible, on-demand tutoring with no need to schedule appointments ✅ Build self-confidence and motivation to succeed in school ✅ Receive support outside of class Houston is home to one of the largest and most diverse school districts in the country! The Houston Independent School District (HISD) serves over 190,000 students across more than 270 schools. But did you know that only about 24% of HISD students meet grade-level expectations in math, and only around 45% do so in reading (Houston Landing & Houston Chronicle, 2023)? With over 80% of students qualifying for free or reduced-price lunch, the need for accessible academic support is urgent. That’s where UPchieve comes in. Studies show that using UPchieve just 9 times can lead to meaningful improvements in student performance. Our tutors are available on demand to explain concepts, help with homework, and coach students to boost test scores. Connect with thousands of expert tutors ready to help you learn—anytime, anywhere. How UPchieve’s Online Tutoring Works Step 1: Join UPchieve by creating an account and signing-in Step 2: Choose the subject you need help in and connect with a free online tutor within 5-10 minutes Step 3: Work with your academic coach in our virtual classroom, using tools like a whiteboard and optional voice chat. You can ask them any academic question—this is a judgment-free zone! Got questions about online tutoring? Visit our Student FAQ . 15+ Topics Houston Tutors Can Help With Whether you’re just starting middle school in Houston or preparing for graduation, UPchieve’s free online tutors are ready to help students in grades 6–12. Thousands of volunteer coaches are available to support you in math, science, English, and more. Need help with SAT prep or college essays? We’ve got your back there, too. Get the support you need—on your schedule, for free. Math 6th grade math 7th grade math 8th grade math 9th grade math 10th grade math 11th grade math 12th grade math Integrated Math 1-4 AP Math Statistics Algebra Geometry Pre-Algebra Pre-Calculus Calculus Science 6th grade science 7th grade science 8th grade science 9th grade science 10th grade science 11th grade science 12th grade science AP Science Chemistry Physics Statistics Biology English 6th grade English 7th grade English 8th grade English 9th grade English 10th grade English 11th grade English 12th grade English AP English SAT Critical Reading and Comprehension Mathematical Problem-Solving Mental Math Time Management Test-Taking Strategies College Essay “Why Us” Essay Common App Essay Personal Essay Internship and Scholarship Application Essays Areas We Serve Our certified tutors support students in every corner of Houston—from historic neighborhoods to fast-growing communities. Houston Tutors by NeighBORHOOD Third Ward Tutors Alief Tutors Gulfton Tutors East End Tutors Sharpstown Tutors Heights Tutors Sunnyside Tutors Kashmere Gardens Tutors Acres Homes Tutors Westbury Tutors Spring Branch Tutors Midtown Houston Tutors Museum District Tutors Independence Heights Tutors Montrose Tutors Greater Fifth Ward Tutors Greenspoint Tutors Bellaire Tutors Meyerland Tutors Briar Forest Tutors Denver Harbor Tutors Garden Oaks Tutors University Place Tutors West Oaks Tutors Energy Corridor Tutors Northside Houston Tutors Houston Tutoring FAQs A local Houston tutor can cost between $20 to $60 per hour, depending on subject and location. However, UPchieve provides 100% free tutoring for students who attend Title 1 middle and high schools or live in low-income neighborhoods anywhere in the U.S. At UPchieve, our mission is to ensure that every student—no matter their background—gets the support they need to graduate high school, get into the college of their choice, and achieve upward mobility. Despite Houston’s efforts to improve education, a wide achievement gap persists for socioeconomically disadvantaged students. More than 80% of HISD students qualify for free or reduced-price lunch (HISD, 2023), underscoring the urgent need for free, accessible academic support. We’re here to close that gap by reaching students who face barriers to academic resources. Skip the search for “tutors near me”—with UPchieve, you can create a free account, log in, and get matched with a tutor in under 10 minutes. UPchieve has dozens of tutors based in Houston and thousands more worldwide. Since our tutors are virtual, you can get help anytime, whether you’re in Garden Oaks or University Place. You can study from your home, a library, or even a park with Wi-Fi! We designed UPchieve to be on-demand and fit your busy Houston schedule. Whether it’s 2 pm or 2 am, sign on and improve your grades. Our tutors cover more than 30 subjects, including Algebra 1, Enligh, SAT, college counseling and more. We also offer support for tests like the SAT and ACT, plus coaching on applications for colleges and universities in Texas—like the University of Houston, UT Austin, Texas A&M, and more! Finding a tutor who meets your learning needs is key to success. Look for empathy, experience, and resourcefulness. UPchieve vets and trains all our volunteer tutors, ensuring you’ll match with a supportive tutor every time. If you’re asking, “Do I need a tutor?” here are signs you could benefit from UPchieve: You’re struggling to stay motivated Hiring a tutor is out of your budget You’re falling behind on homework Your grades are slipping, or not improving despite your efforts Finding study time is tough with family, sports, or work (especially in busy Houston!) Here’s how it works: Join UPchieve by creating a free account. Select your subject, and get matched with an online tutor in minutes. Use the chat, voice and virtual classroom to get personalized feedback and work through your homework or essay. If you want to learn more, read our Student FAQs! Get your own online tutor, at no cost … ever!
