Items which are available to buy now can be purchased immediately at a set price. When this filter is activated, you'll only see items ready for instant purchase instead of items that you need the Seller to accept. Managed items are pieces HURR looks after on our brands’ behalf. You can easily recognise them from their MANAGED tag. They are professionally cleaned by Oxwash, include free return shipping and are available for next day shipping if you book by midday. Top Lenders are a group of some of the most trusted and best performing members of the HURR marketplace. You can easily recognise them by looking for the badge on item and profile pages. You can also filter the marketplace to only show items from Top Lender wardrobes. Items which are available to buy now can be purchased immediately at a set price. When this filter is activated, you'll only see items ready for instant purchase instead of items that you need the Seller to accept. Managed items are pieces HURR looks after on our brands’ behalf. You can easily recognise them from their MANAGED tag. They are professionally cleaned by Oxwash, include free return shipping and are available for next day shipping if you book by midday. Top Lenders are a group of some of the most trusted and best performing members of the HURR marketplace. You can easily recognise them by looking for the badge on item and profile pages. You can also filter the marketplace to only show items from Top Lender wardrobes. These items are managed by the HURR team on behalf of our concierge clients or brands which we partner with. Big news! You can now shop our pre-loved RESALE collection from anywhere in the world! Access discounts of up to 90% off designer brands, and simply select your country from the dropdown list at checkout. BROWSE RESALE NOW READ OUR FAQ’s 💰 Buy a Flex pass here to top up your account immediately or earn 5% of the total rental price as Loyalty credit on a paid-for successful rental. ⏰ Loyalty credits will be awarded 48 hours after the rental end date and only if the rental is successful (it does not have a fit policy or dispute resolution refund). 🛒 Credits expire after 12 months and can be applied at checkout on future rentals. ℹ️ No minimum spend applies but credits cannot be used in conjunction with coupon codes. Credits cannot be applied against Delivery, Plant a Tree or Damage Protection fees. We are uploading your image... (This may take a few moments for large files or a slow connection) Thank you for submitting your ID. It can sometimes take a few minutes to process so hang tight and you'll receive an email to confirm your verification. CLOSE You told us this is your email, is that correct? No, I need to change it By registering with a 3rd party, I accept HURR's terms of service and privacy policy. 💰 Buy a Flex pass here to top up your account immediately or earn 5% of the total rental price as Loyalty credit on a paid-for successful rental. ⏰ Loyalty credits will be awarded 48 hours after the rental end date and only if the rental is successful (it does not have a fit policy or dispute resolution refund). 🛒 Credits expire after 12 months and can be applied at checkout on future rentals. ℹ️ No minimum spend applies but credits cannot be used in conjunction with coupon codes. Credits cannot be applied against Delivery, Plant a Tree or Damage Protection fees. It looks like something went wrong, sorry about that... This can happen when a timeout occurs. Please try to perform your action again and, if the issue persists, then please get in touch with our Customer Care team using the chat bubble.
