This guide provides pricing for electrical services in and around the Atlanta area. Note: This is a helpful list only. Your project may differ significantly in price. For an exact quote schedule an appointment today. Troubleshooting Electrical Problems in the House (Flat Rate Guarantee) - Includes service call, solution guaranteed troubleshooting, and free minor adjustments. Parts and repairs not included. (includes permits, breakers, etc.) (discounts available for large projects) Replacing Lights and Fixtures Around The House (depending on height of fixture) Installation prices listed Above plus $80 - $250+ for ladders/scaffolding and safety precautions (We Consider a Ceiling over 12′ Tall) Installing "NEW" Lights and Fixtures Around The House Recessed Lighting and Under Cabinet Lighting (includes housing, trim, and lamp) (includes housing, trim, and lamp) Replacing Outlets & Switches Around the Home (discounts for multiples devices) (includes basic device) Installing NEW Switches or Outlets Installing Special Equipment and Dedicated Circuits This page contains electrical pricing for Atlanta, GA area electricians the “TE Certified Electricians. This page should not be used as a price list, price guide or price guarantee. This information is copyrighted by TE Certified Electricians and unauthorized duplication is strictly prohibited. How We’re Qualified There are a lot of electric companies in Atlanta wanting your attention, especially when you have the least amount of time imaginable! So our promise is simple: If you see an electrician in our uniform, he’ll be both state-licensed and TE Certified. TE Certified techs are specialists. They are also W-2 employees of our company which means they answer to us for every minute they’re in the field, at your home, and working on your equipment. And believe it or not, we probably require better work performance than even our customers! Our technicians complete many hours of extensive in-house training, and pass written exams, code testing, and hands-on skill assessments. But their training doesn’t stop there. Mandatory weekly training sessions keep them up-to-date on the latest in electrician trends; the newest innovations; and the city, state and federal electrical guidelines. While there may be several ways to handle your electrical needs are “OK,” we follow an extensive set of “best practices” that we are constantly sharpening so you know you’re getting the best quality workmanship in Atlanta. We Drive Fully-Stocked Service Vans We send out our electricians “Ready to Work.” Even if your appointment is just an estimate, if you’re confident with our company (and we’re sure you will be!), you can decide to go ahead and complete the work right then. Since electrical is our business, our service vans carry the latest in technology and diagnostic devices, the best time-tested tools and equipment of our trade, and the electrical repair parts we use all of the time. We restock daily to make sure the one showing up in front of your house is fully-equipped to meet your project head-on. Even if you decide on a major installation, our technicians have everything they need to get the work started. Regardless of your project, we show up ready to get the job done.
