Phone Number & Wifi Calling Free · In‑App Purchases Call and text for free with TextNow, the free phone service with over 100 million users. Get nationwide coverage with unlimited talk and text, plus 5G data—starting at $0/month. Staying connected doesn’t have to be expensive. What makes us different? • No phone bill, no fixed contracts, and no hidden fees • Get a free local phone number or keep your own for a private second line or business use. • Flexible data options: daily, weekly, or monthly unlimited data access. • Low-cost international calling to 230+ countries FREE TALK & TEXT NATIONWIDE: NO PHONE BILL, NO FIXED CONTRACTS Stay connected with the TextNow free Wi-Fi calling and texting app, or order a TextNow SIM card to freely call, text, and use selected apps without having to connect to Wi-Fi. FREE FLEX PLAN We are the first phone service provider to offer data completely FREE. With the Free Flex Plan, you can access apps like: • Email • Maps • Rideshare • Banking apps All without paying for a data plan. Simply order a SIM card to get started - No commitments, no hidden fees. UNLIMITED DATA PLANS: AFFORDABLE & FLEXIBLE Only pay for the data you use with no long-term contracts or commitments. We’re the ONLY provider with super flexible unlimited data options. We have: • Low-cost daily passes • Affordable weekly or monthly unlimited data plans You can cancel any time in the app! Get the data you want, exactly when you want it. SECOND PHONE NUMBER: FOR PRIVATE CALLING & TEXTING, A SEPARATE BUSINESS LINE & MORE Use the TextNow calling and text messaging app as a free second phone line. Perfect for 2nd line, business phone, side hustles, or personal use. It gives free calls and texts without an extra phone bill. INTERNATIONAL CALLING: Low-cost across 230+ COUNTRIES Have friends and family overseas? TextNow offers free calls to Mexico and Canada with low-cost international calls to 230+ countries with rates starting at less than $0.01 per minute. WHY TEXTNOW? • Call and text for free immediately when you download the TextNow communication app – No bill or fees • Get nationwide data coverage with a TextNow SIM card, and talk and text without Wi-Fi • Get a local phone number or keep your existing number. Area codes are available across most metro areas in the US. • FREE voice call, direct message, SMS message, picture and video messenger to the US or Canada. • Flexible data options with daily, weekly, and monthly. Only pay when you want it. • Use on multiple devices including your computer or tablet and effortlessly access calls and texts whenever you need them. • Low-cost international calls across over 230 countries. • Voicemail to text audio transcription and conference calling. HOW IS TEXTNOW FREE? There are no yearly or monthly fees to use TextNow. We partner with brands to pay for your phone service (so you don’t have to) with in-app ads. Ads won’t interrupt your experience. If you don't like ads, you can purchase a subscription to remove them. MORE FEATURES STANDARD FOR ALL USERS • Passcode for safe and private texting and calling • Caller ID • Customizable free text tones, call tones, ringtones, vibrations and phone backgrounds • Quick Reply to speedily respond to friends • A home screen widget for instant use • Text from your computer and seamlessly synchronize with your mobile device via textnow.com So, what are you waiting for? Download the app and take control of your phone service, starting today. Follow us on social for the latest news and offers: TikTok - @textnow Facebook - @textnow Instagram - @textnow Twitter - @TextNow Privacy policy: https://www.textnow.com/privacy Terms of use: https://www.textnow.com/terms Events We did a little fine-tuning this time around to squash some bugs and fix a few crashes. Nothing major, but you might notice things running more smoothly. Loving the app? Leave us a review and share your experience to help us make TextNow even better! Data Used to Track You The following data may be used to track you across apps and websites owned by other companies: Contact Info Identifiers Data Linked to You The following data may be collected and linked to your identity: Purchases Location Contact Info Contacts User Content Identifiers Usage Data Diagnostics Data Not Linked to You The following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity: Usage Data Information Seller TextNow, Inc. Size 337.8 MB Category Social Networking Compatibility Requires iOS 15.0 or later. iPhone Requires iOS 15.0 or later. iPad Requires iPadOS 15.0 or later. iPod touch Requires iOS 15.0 or later. Apple Vision Requires visionOS 1.0 or later. Languages English and 2 more English, French, Spanish Age Rating 4+ 4+ In-App Purchases Yes Lock Your Number for 1 Week $1.99 Lock Number 1 Week $1.99 Ad Free+ $6.99 Lock Your Number for 1 Year $4.99 Ad Free+ & 14-day free trial $9.99 $4.99 in International Calling Credit $4.99 Premium Subscription $2.99 Premium Number 1 Month $4.99 Premium Number 1 Year $4.99 Premium Subscription + 14-day free trial $2.99 Copyright © 2025 TextNow, Inc. Supports
