Our editorial team is committed to creating independent and objective content focused on helping our readers make informed decisions. To help support these efforts we receive compensation from companies that advertise with us. The compensation we receive from these companies may impact how and where products appear on this site. This compensation does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides within our content. We do not include all companies, products or offers that may be available. Last Updated: February 25, 2025 Moving is often considered one of the most stressful life events that people go through. Even if you live in a smaller town (like Erie) with less crowded streets, you might be concerned about navigating around with a cumbersome moving truck. When temperatures can get colder than in many places, it could affect the ease of your move and cause more stress. You can reduce your stress with our carefully crafted guide to Erie's best movers, who can help you make your move hassle-free. Our Rating User Rating Punctual service Good customer service Free quotes Helps educate customers Services Offered Our Rating User Rating Free quotes Helps educate customers Services Offered Our Rating User Rating Transparent pricing Free quotes Services Offered Our Rating User Rating Good customer service Free quotes Services Offered Our Rating User Rating Helps educate customers Transparent pricing Free quotes Services Offered Our Rating User Rating Free quotes Services Offered Our Rating User Rating Services Offered Our Rating User Rating Services Offered Today's Homeowner looks at dozens of datapoints on moving companies to come up with our data-driven rankings. It's not possible for a company to pay for preferential treatment in our rankings. We look at the following key factors in determining who should top our list: The first step in picking a company is determining if you're better off with a national or local mover. As illustrated above, different types of movers are better for different types of moves. You also will need to choose between a full-service or self-service moving company. Both types of movers provide trucks and drivers. However, full-service companies also provide packing and loading services, while self-service companies do not. The type of company that is best for you will depend on your budget and how badly you want to avoid packing boxes. Some good ways to learn about the reputation of a moving company are through online reviews and the BBB. You might also want to learn about which movers near you meet all of Pennsylvania's licensing requirements for movers. Every company on our list of Erie's best movers is well-reviewed and selected by our team of experts. Once you've narrowed it down to a few companies, you can start contacting them. We suggest reaching out to two or more of the moving companies from our list above. Make sure to explain all the services you're going to need when you ask for an estimate. Also, confirm that you've received a "binding estimate" – otherwise, the actual cost may be subject to change. You may be wondering how much you might spend when you move. In Erie, the normal hourly cost for movers is: We've determined the top mover in your area to be Dan's Moving & Storage Inc. To figure out which movers in Erie are the best, our team asks many questions, including: When you're thinking about when to move, you'll want to take both cost and convenience into consideration. Moving during summertime will likely be more expensive, due to how many people move during this time. Traffic may also be heavier during these months. You will probably want to avoid moving in May or August specifically, as the 8,015 college students attending school within 15 miles of Erie will be moving in those months as well.There is also the weather to consider. Erie's temperatures tend to be cold. Your move is best saved for the warmer months, to avoid icy roads and freezing temperatures. To check a mover's reputation, you can: Many movers have special services for large, expensive items. When you're getting estimates from the companies on your shortlist, ask them about these services and ensure the team will have the required tools on the truck. You should also ask about insurance options that can protect you if your items get lost, damaged, or stolen. Compared to a national average of 100.0, the cost of living index for Erie is 89.9. This index considers housing payments, childcare, food, transportation, and other crucial expenses. The median home price in Erie is 168596, while the average monthly rent is about $957. Loading map...
