Page 1 of 430 Dec 08 2025: On December 3, the Institute of Museum and Library Services announced on its website that it “has reinstated all federal grants.” This action is the result of a permanent injunction ordered on November 21 by U.S. Distric… Dec 03 2025: Late last week, the European Parliament voted to remove printed books and newspapers from the need to comply with the European Union Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) act. The goal of EUDR is to prevent forest degradation … Dec 01 2025: In the past several years, AI-powered developmental editing platforms such as AutoCrit, Editrix, and Anthropic’s Claude have emerged with the promise to make the revisions process faster and more accessible. Though autom… Nov 27 2025: Footnote Press and Counterpoints Arts have announced a new fiction award celebrating writers from refugee and migrant backgrounds, offering a £15,000 prize and a publishing deal for the winner. Nov 25 2025: In districts that held competitive school board elections this November 4, voters leaned toward candidates who emphasized equity and consensus-building, and rejected division and censorship. Becky Pringle, president of t… Nov 21 2025: More than half of published novelists in the UK believe artificial intelligence could eventually replace their work entirely, according to a new report from the University of Cambridge. Nov 20 2025: Winners are up! You can see them all here: Major Book Awards And watch the ceremony here if you didn’t catch it last night: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZxKMIbjd39s I didn’t watch all of it, but did see the speeches… Nov 20 2025: On the evening of November 19, attendees to the 76th National Book Awards crowded into Cipriani Wall Street in Manhattan in their black-tie best to witness the announcement of publishing’s highest honors. Grammy Award–wi… Your guide to exceptional books BookBrowse seeks out and recommends the best in contemporary fiction and nonfiction—books that not only engage and entertain but also deepen our understanding of ourselves and the world around us.
