Nutrition Concerns Calories, sugar, fiber, fat — Food Scores starts here. Our algorithm, based on global nutrition science, weighs these four factors most heavily to help you quickly spot healthier options. Ingredient Concerns Product labels don’t always tell the whole story. We flag ingredients linked to health or environmental risks, like additives and pesticides. It’s the second most important metric in Food Scores. Processing Concerns Not all processed foods are bad but some are more concerning than others. For the third metric, we look at how far a product strays from whole ingredients and the additives used in making it. Data provided by LabelINSIGHT ® and backed by science-based food safety systems. Our Fight for Healthier Food We don’t just rate food. We fight for a safer, more transparent food system. These five areas define our mission, and your power as a consumer. FOOD CHEMICALS We uncover the hidden, harmful additives, contaminants, and chemicals that don’t belong in your food. Explore food chemicals factory farms We expose the harms of large factory farms producing meat and dairy. Our work pushes for a more humane, sustainable food system. Explore factory farms ultra-processed food We inform consumers about the health risks of certain highly processed foods made with chemicals and other ingredients of concern. Explore UPF pesticides Harmful pesticide residues can not only be found on some fruit and vegetables, they can also pollute communities near where they're used. Explore pesticides food and environment We reveal how large-scale farming poses risks to the environment through air, soil and water pollution. Explore food and environment FOOD CHEMICALS We uncover the hidden, harmful additives, contaminants, and chemicals that don’t belong in your food. Explore food chemicals factory farms We expose the harms of large factory farms producing meat and dairy. Our work pushes for a more humane, sustainable food system. Explore factory farms ultra-processed food We inform consumers about the health risks of certain highly processed foods made with chemicals and other ingredients of concern. Explore UPFS pesticides Harmful pesticide residues can not only be found on some fruit and vegetables, they can also pollute communities near where they're used. Explore pesticides food and environment We reveal how large-scale farming poses risks to the environment through air, soil and water pollution. Explore food and environment There’s more to uncover. See all the ways EWG is fighting for healthier options on your plate. Browse all food topics
