Applications for Fall 2026 are OPEN — ‘Here, You Are What’s Next’ is more than a spot – it’s a promise. Whether you’re a career explorer, switcher, entrepreneur, or enhancer, the Hildebrand MBA at Texas McCombs offers tailored options to fit your lifestyle, empowering you to make a collective impact and bring your unique value into the world. Monumental Gift Alumna's donation names MBA program We're glad to share a landmark moment for our suite of MBA programs. The , officially named through a $20 million gift from Mindy Hildebrand, BBA '86, advances our programs through three key initiatives: a strategic matching campaign to support MBA program initiatives, comprehensive leadership programming across all five MBA programs, and the creation of Hildebrand Scholars, initially focusing on Full-Time MBA students. Full-Time MBA The Full-Time MBA experience allows you to fully immerse yourself in a transformative two-year experience where you will learn, explore, and develop meaningful relationships with classmates. You'll take classes at Rowling Hall on The University of Texas at Austin campus, and the flexible curriculum gives you the option to pursue two STEM designated paths and the option to focus your learning through 20+ concentrations. Full-Time Classes in Austin Evening MBA Earn your MBA in 21 months without career interruption. The cohort-based curriculum will enhance your understanding of core business principles with a focus on technology, leadership, and the global business environment. Designed for working professionals, classes meet on Monday and Tuesday evenings at our main campus in Austin, allowing you to balance work, life, and MBA studies. Executive MBA Prepare to elevate your leadership impact with an Executive MBA tailored for experienced professionals. Earn your Executive MBA in 20 months with classes in-person just one weekend each month. The cohort-based, executive-focused curriculum emphasizes leadership, strategy, and analytics. The program includes three immersion trips in major U.S. markets outside Austin and a one-week-long Global immersion. Weekend MBA at Dallas/Fort worth Earn your MBA in 21 months without career interruption. The cohort-based curriculum will enhance your understanding of core business principles and focus on technology, leadership, and the global business environment. Designed for working professionals, classes meet on alternating weekends at our MBA campus at The Centrum in the Oak Lawn area of Dallas, allowing you to balance work, life, and MBA studies. Alternating Weekends in Dallas Weekend MBA at Houston Earn your MBA in 21 months without career interruption. The cohort-based curriculum will enhance your understanding of core business principles and focus on technology, leadership, and the global business environment. Designed for working professionals, classes meet on alternating weekends at our MBA campus at the UT Health Cizik School of Nursing in the Texas Medical Center, allowing you to balance work, life, and MBA studies. Alternating Weekends in Houston Hear From Your Community The Value of the MBA #1 In Texas Best MBA Program U.S. News & World Report #6 In the U.S. Working Professional MBA U.S. News & World Report #12 In the U.S. Executive MBA U.S. News & World Report #16 In the U.S. Full-Time MBA U.S. News & World Report
