OVERVIEW An Online MBA That Delivers Real-World Leadership Skills Built with insight from industry leaders, WGU’s MBA equips you with the strategies, skills, and confidence employers expect from leaders today. Every course is designed around the demands of business today—finance, operations, HR, marketing, and technology—so you graduate prepared to make an immediate impact. Recognized by The Wall Street Journal as one of the top return-on-investment MBA programs, WGU helps you gain the cross-functional business expertise to stay agile, lead teams, and drive results in a changing marketplace. Graduates can finish within 12 months* WGU lets you set a schedule so you can finish your MBA in just one year. You are in control of the schedule and timing for your online MBA program. *WGU Internal Data Tuition per six-month term is $4,805 See what your online MBA will cost at our university. Tuition charged per term—rather than per credit—helps students control the ultimate cost of their degrees. Finish faster, pay less! Average salary increase $14,025* Master of Business Administration graduates report an average salary increase of $14,025 after completing their WGU degree. *WGU Internal Data COURSES MBA Courses Program consists of 11 courses At WGU, we design our curriculum to be timely, relevant, and practical—all to help you show that you know your stuff. This program is composed of the following business and management courses. You will typically complete them one at a time as you progress through your program, working with your Program Mentor each term to build your personalized degree plan. You’ll work through each course as quickly as you can master the material. As soon as you’re ready, you’ll pass the assessment, complete the course, and move on. You can finish as many courses as you're able each term at no additional cost—making it possible to graduate faster, for less. One-year MBA students can complete all coursework in two WGU terms. Your Program Mentor will help you set a schedule that enables you to finish your program quickly. Learn more about the one-year MBA program at WGU. To ensure WGU graduates gain cutting-edge knowledge and skills sought by today’s employers, our Master of Business Administration was developed with significant input from global business leaders who serve on our Business Program Council. 11 Courses Program consists of 11 courses At WGU, we design our curriculum to be timely, relevant, and practical—all to help you show that you know your stuff. Capstone Project Special requirements for this program At the end of your program, you will complete a capstone project that represents the culmination of all your hard work—a project that allows you to take what you’ve learned and apply it to a real-world situation, proposing a solution to an actual issue you face in your place of business. Skills For Your Résumé As part of this program, you will develop a range of valuable skills that employers are looking for. Management: Identified and determined the resources required to effectively support an organization or process, ensuring optimal functionality and efficiency. Operations: Developed comprehensive systems with standard operating procedures (SOPs) for distinct parts of a business, promoting consistency, compliance, and operational excellence. Communication: Leveraged appropriate communication techniques to effectively persuade and guide outcomes. Data Analysis: Applied analytical and logical reasoning skills to uncover valuable information crucial for decision-making processes. Written Communication: Addressed internal and external stakeholders using the most suitable written communication strategy for each audience, fostering effective communication and engagement. Business Development: Developed strategic plans for acquiring new business and expanding existing business in collaboration with the business development team. “Because of WGU's competency-based program, I didn't have to get into things that I already knew. Instead I was able to use that for the things that were more challenging for me to learn.” —Alvyn Joy Halili MBA WGU vs. Traditional Universities Compare the Difference Traditional Universities TUITION STRUCTURE Per credit hour Flat rate per 6-month term SUPPORT Schedule and wait days or even weeks to meet with one of many counselors Simply email or call to connect with your designated Program Mentor who supports you from day one EXAMS Scheduled time Whenever you feel ready SCHEDULE Professor led lectures at a certain time and place Courses available anytime, from anywhere TIME TO FINISH Approximately 2 years, minimal acceleration options As quickly as you can master the material, can finish programs in 1 year Traditional Universities TUITION STRUCTURE Per credit hour TUITION STRUCTURE Flat rate per 6-month term SUPPORT Schedule and wait days or even weeks to meet with one of many counselors SUPPORT Simply email or call to connect with your designated Program Mentor who supports you from day one EXAMS Scheduled time EXAMS Whenever you feel ready SCHEDULE Professor led lectures at a certain time and place SCHEDULE Courses available anytime, from anywhere TIME TO FINISH Approximately 2 years, minimal acceleration options TIME TO FINISH As quickly as you can master the material, can finish programs in 1 year Why WGU? Earning Potential After graduation, WGU MBA master's degree graduates report earning $14,025 more per year*. Are you ready to make more money? *WGU Internal Data Entirely Online Competency-based education means you can move as quickly through your degree as you can master the material. You don't have to log in to classes at a certain time—you are truly in the driver's seat of your education. Entirely Online The Master of Business Administration degree at WGU is 100% online, which means it works wherever you are. You can do your coursework at night after working at your full-time job, on weekends, while you're traveling the world or on vacation—it's entirely up to you. Accredited, Respected, Recognized™ One important measure of a degree’s value is the reputation of the university where it was earned. When employers, industry leaders, and academic experts hold your alma mater in high esteem, you reap the benefits of that respect. WGU is a pioneer in reinventing higher education for the 21st century, and our quality has been recognized. COST & TIME Affordable Online Degree Programs By charging per term rather than per credit—and empowering students to accelerate through material they know well or learn quickly—WGU helps students control the ultimate cost of their degrees. The faster you complete your program, the less you pay for your degree. A College Degree Within Reach There is help available to make paying for school possible for you: The average student loan debt of WGU graduates in 2022 (among those who borrowed) was less than half* the national average. Most WGU students qualify for financial aid, and WGU is approved for federal financial aid and U.S. veterans benefits. Many scholarship opportunities are available. Find out what you might be eligible for. * WGU undergraduate students have approximately half the debt at graduation compared to the national average, according to the Institute for College Access and Success (2022). FLEXIBLE SCHEDULE You Control Where, When, and How Fast You Learn and Graduate Schedules are tight and often unpredictable for busy professionals. That’s why we offer a flexible, personalized approach to how education should be. No interruptions to your work and family obligations. No rigid class schedules. No barriers to earning your degree on your own terms. Just a solid, career-focused online MBA program that meshes seamlessly with your current lifestyle. "I was fortunate enough to finish my WGU degree program in six months because I was able to show what I knew and not have to sit in needless classes. I was able to showcase my strengths and still have plenty of time to work on my weaknesses, which really helped me finish my degree. I couldn't have done this anywhere else.” —David Burks MBA CAREER OUTLOOK An Industry-Aligned MBA Degree That Prepares You to Take the Lead Goldman Sachs. Google. MGM. Microsoft. Apple. These giant organizations are changing the world, and they’re doing it with WGU MBA graduates. Our alumni stand out from the competition and make real contributions to top organizations. An online Master of Business Administration degree from WGU could help elevate your career, too. Get an MBA online that prepares you to lead cross-functional teams with the agility to adapt to the ever-changing world of business. WGU’s online MBA degree is designed for business professionals who want to graduate with career-ready skills. Hone the management and strategy skills to take charge in finance, operations, marketing, HR, and technology. Become the business leader your organization needs. Return on Your Investment On average, WGU graduates see an increase in income post-graduation Average income increase in annual salary vs. pre-enrollment salary from all degrees. Source: 2023 Harris Poll of 1,655 WGU graduates. Survey was sent to a representative sample of WGU graduates from all colleges. Respondents received at least one WGU degree since 2017. 6% Employment of top executives is projected to grow 6% through 2033. —U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics MBAs from WGU Are Leading Teams and Businesses in Diverse Industries Problem-solving leaders are required in every industry, and strategic thinking is necessary at every successful company. If you're ready to broaden your business knowledge and advance your career, WGU's MBA program online can prepare you to be an effective leader and produce successful results wherever you go. Your business management career starts here! Our 5,300-plus MBA grads have great jobs and satisfying careers. Top Jobs Owner President and CEO Vice president Executive director Chief strategic officer Top Industries Private companies Healthcare organizations Nonprofit organizations Government Colleges and universities Top Employers American Airlines Yahoo! Edward Jones Intermountain Healthcare Mayo Clinic WGU Grads Hold Positions With Top Employers ADMISSIONS & TRANSFERS MBA Admission Requirements To be considered for this program, you must: Submit all transcripts verifying receipt of your bachelor’s degree from a recognized, accredited institution. NOTE: You do not need to take the GRE or GMAT to be admitted to this program. Learn why we don't require these tests. Transfer Credits Get Your Enrollment Checklist Download your step-by-step guide to enrollment. Get Your Questions Answered Talk to an WGU Enrollment Counselor. FINISH FASTER The One-Year MBA WGU's competency-based model allows you to move through courses as quickly as you master the material. Whether you learn fast, study hard, or have past work experience, as soon as you pass an assessment, you can move on and potentially graduate faster. WGU's one-year* MBA program prepares you with all the knowledge, skills, and experience you need. You’ll get the same respected degree even faster, and for less. Complete your Master's in Business Administration program in only 12 months for just $9,610. This online Master of Business Administration degree gives you the flexibility you need to earn your degree on your terms. Most students work full-time while completing their master's in business administration—something you and your employer will appreciate. No set login times or class meetings. Study early in the morning, late at night, or even on the road—you are in the driver's seat of your education. * Program can be completed in as little as 12 months. Pricing is based on 12-month completion of the program. Students that do not complete in 12 months and need longer to complete the program will need to pay for additional terms. Frequently Asked Questions about MBA Programs General MBA FAQs Online MBA FAQs MBA stands for Master’s of Business Administration. An MBA is a graduate-level business management degree that teaches you leadership skills for the modern business world. Those with an MBA often stand out among candidates for upper management positions. Both terms are commonly used, but the technical correct usage is Master of Business Administration, or a Master's in Business Administration. There are many job opportunities with an MBA degree. They include: Chief executive officer Executive director Chief financial officer Marketing manager International business development Chief marketing officer Sales manager Operations manager Human resources manager An MBA gives you additional skills and training that can help you progress in your career. You'll learn about strategy, communication, management, and leadership that will help you move into larger roles in an organization. An MBA trains you to become a business leader in many different kinds of industries. In an MBA program you'll have courses in accounting, finance, marketing, strategy, leadership, management, and more. Yes! An MBA can help you boost your résumé and help you get higher pay, better job opportunities, and more. In fact, WGU MBA graduates earn an average of $16,200 more per year after graduation. An MBA is a great option for those who want to progress into management or leadership roles in an organization. Whether you want to move to a new company or have upward mobility in your current organization, an MBA can help you be prepared to move up. An MBA teaches you leadership skills that can help you excel as an executive in a business setting. Earning an MBA can set you apart when you’re looking to advance into a management role within a corporation. The skills you learn in an MBA program may also help you start and manage your own business. In general, it takes around two years to earn an MBA degree. That said, through a competency-based online MBA program like the one offered at WGU, students may be able to earn their degree more quickly, sometimes in 18 months or less. The number of years it takes to earn an MBA degree can vary depending on the university. Traditional university: 2 years Competency-based MBA program: 1 to 1.5 years Part-time MBA program: around 3 years Yes. You can earn an MBA completely online. This unique model enables students to keep their current job while working toward their degree. Competency-based education models and on-demand classes, tests, and assignments make earning a degree online a valid option for busy working professionals or those with limited access to a brick and mortar university. Yes. With the growing prevalence and availability of online MBA programs, curriculum and acceptance criteria have become more rigorous. As higher education has moved increasingly to online formats, more employers are respecting online MBAs and finding online MBA grads to possess the skills necessary to add value to their business. Yes. If you earn an MBA from an accredited and reputable university, it will likely be respected by employers. Many online MBA programs have gained enough of a reputation that employers now seek out graduates specifically from certain online programs and universities. The best online MBA programs in terms of ROI include: Excelsior College; 497% ROI Western Governors University; 267% ROI American Public University; 249% ROI Arizona State University—Skysong; 225% ROI Capella University; 171% ROI No. An online MBA is not necessarily easy. While an online MBA may offer more flexibility and accessibility than a typical in-person program, online programs are still competitive and rigorous. Many students, however, find that an online MBA is easier in the sense that it fits more seamlessly into their busy lives, as they can access courses, take exams, and complete projects anywhere they have internet access. Ready to Start Your WGU Journey?
