Nutrition is consuming the right amount and combination of nutrients to keep your body functioning. Nutrients are chemical substances that you find in food. Good nutrition can reduce your risk of disease. It can support healing and your mental health. Advertisement Cleveland Clinic is a non-profit academic medical center. Advertising on our site helps support our mission. We do not endorse non-Cleveland Clinic products or services. Policy Nutrition is the process of eating and absorbing food that your body needs for nourishment. It involves breaking down food into nutrients. Nutrients are chemical substances your body needs to function. But this essential process does much more than that. For example: Advertisement Cleveland Clinic is a non-profit academic medical center. Advertising on our site helps support our mission. We do not endorse non-Cleveland Clinic products or services. Policy In other words, there’s more to nutrition than may meet the eye. Taking a closer look at nutrition may help you understand how it works. That may make you feel confident that you’re making the most of what you eat. There are six major classes of nutrients. Eating well is a balancing act that combines all six. The nutrients in the food you eat benefit your body in different ways. Macronutrients provide energy and keep your body working. Micronutrients are vitamins and minerals. They support your metabolism, among other functions. Water rounds out the list of essential nutrients. It supports nutrition in many ways, like carrying nutrients and oxygen to your cells. If your body was a building, macronutrients would be the foundation. Macronutrients are your main source of energy. Macronutrients are: Advertisement Micronutrients include essential vitamins and minerals. You need fewer micronutrients than macronutrients, but they’re still very important. Vitamins are substances that animals and plants make. The food you eat is your main source of most vitamins. Many people take a multivitamin to make sure they’re getting all the vitamins they need. You may recognize some vitamin names, like vitamin A, vitamin C or vitamin D. Others may not be so familiar. But they all contribute to your health. The following are essential vitamins: Minerals make their way into food via the animals that eat them and the plants that absorb them. Animals and plants provide minerals. These substances support your health in many ways. The following minerals are micronutrients: The long list of macronutrients and micronutrients come together in the five food groups that make up the balanced meals you need to have good nutrition: Advertisement Getting nutrition right is a balancing act that changes throughout your lifetime. Babies, kids, adults and older adults have very different nutritional needs. For example, breast milk or formula meets most babies’ nutritional needs until they’re six months old. But adults and older adults typically need a different combination of nutrients. Breast milk or formula meets most babies’ nutritional needs for the first six months. At six months, you can start adding solid food to the mix. It can be challenging to figure out which mix of solid food gives your baby the best possible nutritional boost. Ask your baby’s pediatrician for suggestions for your baby’s introduction to solid food. The nutritional balancing act continues as your baby grows. In general, meals that include the five food groups give toddlers and children the right combination of macronutrients and micronutrients. Building meals from the five food groups still works for adults. But males and females benefit by having a different mix of macronutrients and micronutrients. Here are two examples: Advertisement The nutrient picture changes as we age. Medication or medical conditions may affect your appetite. When you eat less, you miss out on essential nutrients. People age 65 and older may benefit by focusing on foods that boost vitamin D and calcium for strong bones. There are medical conditions that affect nutrition regardless of your age. For example: Conditions that affect nutrition can lead to macronutrient and micronutrient undernutrition. These are types of malnutrition. They can cause serious complications: Advertisement They’re both a way to keep track of what you eat. Calories are a unit of energy. They measure how much energy food provides your body. Nutrients are essential chemical substances your body needs to function and can have different calories (for example, lipids have more calories than carbohydrates). A registered dietitian (RD) is probably your best source of information about nutrients. They’ll discuss your needs, explain how specific nutrients may be helpful and how to build nutrients into a meal plan. The saying “You are what you eat” doesn’t capture all the things that make us individual and unique. But it comes close. It’s fair to say that what we eat — the nutrients we consume — supports our physical and mental health in many ways. Nutrition can be complicated. There are more than a dozen macronutrients and micronutrients. You may wonder if you’ll need to sort them all to build healthy eating habits. Ask a healthcare provider for help. They’ll take time to understand your situation. Then, they’ll make recommendations to help create a nutrition plan for eating that works for you. Good nutrition is an important part of staying healthy. Cleveland Clinic’s nutrition care team can help you reach your health and wellness goals. Last reviewed on 03/14/2025. Learn more about the Health Library and our editorial process.
