Accounting, Tax & Advisory Services in Lexington, KY Lexington 1000 Vine Center, 333 West Vine Street Lexington, KY 40507 P: 859.514.7800 F: 859.514.7805 CPA Firm Serving Lexington, Kentucky As a nationally recognized CPA and advisory firm, Cherry Bekaert has been dedicated to providing exceptional accounting, tax, audit and advisory services to clients in the Lexington, KY, area and beyond since 1947. We work with a diverse range of businesses, from local start-ups to multinational corporations, as well as individuals and nonprofits, offering customized solutions to meet the unique financial needs of each client. Our team is well-versed in addressing the complexities of today’s financial environment, delivering practical and innovative strategies that help clients achieve sustainable growth and success. Cherry Bekaert’s reputation for excellence is reflected in our consistent ranking among Forbes’ Best Tax and Accounting Firms in America. With a team of highly experienced CPAs and advisors, we are dedicated to delivering high-quality, cost-effective solutions across all areas of accounting and financial advisory. From tax compliance and audit services to business consulting and strategic planning, we work closely with each client to provide tailored services that align with their goals and objectives. At Cherry Bekaert, we don’t see ourselves as just an accounting firm — we view ourselves as a trusted partner in your financial journey. We bring the resources and capabilities of a large firm while maintaining the personal touch of a local advisor. Our team in Lexington, KY, is ready to help you navigate the challenges and opportunities ahead, providing the financial insight and guidance you need to thrive. Contact us today to learn how Cherry Bekaert can support your business with professional accounting, tax, audit and advisory services. Brad Smith Partner, Regional Market Leader As Lexington’s Regional Market Leader, Brad is responsible for overseeing relationships to ensure a coordinated and seamless service experience for clients served in the market. Brad is a Certified Public Accountant with extensive knowledge in accounting, auditing, financial reporting, strategic planning and SEC audit. Brad has significant experience working with clients in the industrial manufacturing, government and public sector, and not-for-profit industries. Prior to joining Cherry Bekaert, Brad was the managing partner of a large regional accounting firm and was also a partner with a Big Four firm. Debbie Smith Director, Market Leader Debbie is responsible for overseeing relationships to provide a coordinated, seamless service experience for clients served in the Lexington market. She is responsible for planning, supervising and overseeing the completion of assurance engagements. With extensive experience in public accounting, her background combines expertise in both the financial institutions and not-for-profit industries. All Industries We Serve Featured Insights Cherry Bekaert Acquires MCM CPAs & Advisors Cherry Bekaert announced it acquired MCM CPAs & Advisors, a large Midwest accounting and advisory firm. Top 10 States Offering the Best Business Tax Credits & Incentives Explore the state tax credits and incentives offered by these top 10 states as well as the compliance rules per state and how they vary. Cherry Bekaert Ranked First on Fastest Growing Accounting Firms by Accounting Today Cherry Bekaert has been recognized in 2024 by Accounting Today as the #1 Fastest Growing Accounting Firm & a leader in tax and accounting.
