How to hire accounting and finance talent with us Hire talent Connect. Choose the approach that works for you: explore candidates online, team up with a specialized recruiter or seamlessly switch between both. Select. Our finance and accounting recruiters combine their experience with our award-winning AI to recommend candidates whose skills align with your business needs. Hire. We’ll work within your internal process to keep things moving, from coordinating interviews to providing salary guidance and onboarding support. Learn how we’ve helped organizations like yours A large school district turned to Robert Half for skilled contract accounting professionals to augment its staff during an ERP implementation, and a team to help centralize finance functions. Our recruiters provided on-site contract professionals to maintain daily accounting and bookkeeping functions during the implementation and cover employee absences. Robert Half helped a rural manufacturer overcome its limited local talent pool and below-market salary offerings to find accounts payable professionals. Our recruiters shared compensation and remote hiring strategies to help the company attract and retain skilled accounts payable candidates and clear its outstanding invoice backlog. A recently acquired restaurant chain worked with Robert Half to hire the skilled accountants and controllers needed to support anticipated double-digit growth. Robert Half recruiters shared salary guidance and recruiting strategies to attract and retain skilled talent and identified remote and on-site professionals from our large network of candidates. Frequently asked questions Robert Half provides specialized staffing services in a variety of professional fields across all industries and company sizes: finance and accounting, technology, marketing and creative, legal, and administrative and customer support. It hires recruiters directly from these fields to understand customer needs and deliver exceptional service. What does Robert Half specialize in? What does Robert Half specialize in? Robert Half provides specialized staffing services in a variety of professional fields across all industries and company sizes: finance and accounting, technology, marketing and creative, legal, and administrative and customer support. It hires recruiters directly from these fields to understand customer needs and deliver exceptional service. Yes. In 2020, Accountemps and other Robert Half businesses were unified under the Robert Half brand. Robert Half continues to provide hiring managers in finance and accounting with contract professionals for their staffing or project needs. Is Robert Half the same as Accountemps? Is Robert Half the same as Accountemps? Yes. In 2020, Accountemps and other Robert Half businesses were unified under the Robert Half brand. Robert Half continues to provide hiring managers in finance and accounting with contract professionals for their staffing or project needs. Accounting staff are responsible for recording and reporting a company’s financial transactions and helping to ensure compliance with accounting standards and regulations. Typical general accounting duties for staff accountants include: Preparing journal entries Assisting with audit fieldwork for both operational and financial audits Supporting month-end and year-end close Preparing financial statements, journal entries and account reconciliations Reconciling and balancing general ledger accounts Researching and correcting account discrepancies What do accounting staff do? What do accounting staff do? Accounting staff are responsible for recording and reporting a company’s financial transactions and helping to ensure compliance with accounting standards and regulations. Typical general accounting duties for staff accountants include: Preparing journal entries Assisting with audit fieldwork for both operational and financial audits Supporting month-end and year-end close Preparing financial statements, journal entries and account reconciliations Reconciling and balancing general ledger accounts Researching and correcting account discrepancies Robert Half offers companies a streamlined, reliable and flexible hiring solution for staffing finance and accounting professionals. The process begins by gathering job requirements from the hiring manager, allowing the team at Robert Half to understand each role’s unique requirements. Each client is then paired with a dedicated recruiter who takes a personalized approach to sourcing candidates, leveraging their local market expertise with AI matching tools to identify talent that aligns with the hiring manager’s needs. Robert Half will then coordinate the interview and selection processes, and negotiate the job offer for the manager and job seeker, providing excellent support throughout the hiring experience. What are the benefits of working with Robert Half, and how does the process work? What are the benefits of working with Robert Half, and how does the process work? Robert Half offers companies a streamlined, reliable and flexible hiring solution for staffing finance and accounting professionals. The process begins by gathering job requirements from the hiring manager, allowing the team at Robert Half to understand each role’s unique requirements. Each client is then paired with a dedicated recruiter who takes a personalized approach to sourcing candidates, leveraging their local market expertise with AI matching tools to identify talent that aligns with the hiring manager’s needs. Robert Half will then coordinate the interview and selection processes, and negotiate the job offer for the manager and job seeker, providing excellent support throughout the hiring experience. Robert Half staffs a large array of finance and accounting roles, including but not limited to: Staff accountant CFO Controller Senior financial analyst Internal auditor Payroll manager Compliance manager Accounts payable/receivable specialist Bookkeeper Collections specialist What finance and accounting roles does Robert Half staff? What finance and accounting roles does Robert Half staff? Robert Half staffs a large array of finance and accounting roles, including but not limited to: Staff accountant CFO Controller Senior financial analyst Internal auditor Payroll manager Compliance manager Accounts payable/receivable specialist Bookkeeper Collections specialist Ready to get started? Let Robert Half help find the talent you need. Connect with a specialized finance and accounting recruiter or explore our candidates to find skills you're looking for. Hire talent Looking for a job? Search jobs now
