Spartan Chemical Company, Inc., has announced the promotion of three new regional managers, effective Nov. 1, 2025. Matt Kuhn joins Spartan in the Arizona region. Prior to joining Spartan, Kuhn held the role of district sales manager for BioLab where he was responsible for managing sales through distribution across the Southwest. Before that, he worked… Read More >> ISSA, the association for cleaning and facility solutions, has announced the return of International Cleaning Week (ICW), taking place March 22-28, 2026. This weeklong event honors the vital work of cleaning professionals, advances industry advocacy, and recognizes exemplary organizations and teams through a series of signature celebrations, including the second annual Spotless Spaces Competition and the first-ever ICW Awards Dinner in… Read More >> JaniJobs, a new online marketplace that connects cleaning professionals with organizations and individuals who need cleaning services, has released its 2026 Cleaning Labor Outlook, highlighting key trends that will define workforce supply, demand and expectations in the coming year. “With fewer workers available and higher client demands, cleaning is no longer just an hourly job,… Read More >> The Malish Corporation has been a trusted name in floor care products since John and Pauline Malish founded the company 80 years ago. “From its first industrial brushes for commercial floor machines to newer innovations such as Flex Scrub® Bristled Floor Pads and The Diamond Devil® Concrete & Terrazzo Restoration and Polishing System, Malish… Read More >> Kimberly-Clark Professional™ has launched its Thrive™ sustainability service that helps businesses reduce waste, track lifecycle progress and make a measurable environmental impact. “Core to the service is a first-of-its-kind program(2) that helps customers in North America upgrade their restrooms while diverting used qualifying dispensers(1) from landfills,” according to a press release. “Kimberly-Clark Professional set out to… Read More >> Spartan Chemical Company, a recognized leader in the formulation and manufacture of sustainable cleaning and sanitation solutions for the industrial and institutional market, has announced that Spartan Chemical President John Swigart was recently elected as Vice President/President-Elect to the 2026 ISSA Board of Directors. Members of the 2026 Board were officially introduced during the ISSA… Read More >> Vectair, a leading global provider of aircare and hygiene, has announced the acquisition of WizKid Products, an innovative manufacturer of urinal screens and mats. “This strategic acquisition further expands Vectair’s capabilities in the commercial and industrial cleaning sectors and enhances its position in the global market,” according to a press release. “We are excited to… Read More >> SCANGRIP, a European manufacturer of LED work lights, is bringing its products to trade professionals in North America. “To eliminate the need for another battery, SCANGRIP has developed a unique CONNECTOR that is compatible with all 18 V/20 V battery packs from leading power tool brands,” according to a press release. “Users simply order the… Read More >> TASKI, creators of the ULTIMATE cleaning machines, has launched ULTIMAXX 360, a breakthrough auto scrubber engineered with a 360° pivoting design. “It delivers professional-grade cleaning in small spaces previously limited to traditional mopping and oﬀers an advanced option for facilities using small auto scrubbers,” according to a press release. “Designed in Switzerland, ULTIMAXX 360 combines… Read More >> Betco® Spotlights Full-Spectrum Of Solutions During ISSA Show North America 2025 Betco® Corporation (Betco), a manufacturer of specialty chemicals and equipment, “will spotlight powerful programs, technologies, and training resources at ISSA Show North America 2025, held in the Expo Hall from November 11-13 at the Mandalay Bay Convention Center in Las Vegas, NV,” according to a press… Read More >>
