The British Cleaning Council (BCC) has urged its member associations and organisations across the cleaning, hygiene and FM sector to take action on modern slavery. Modern slavery occurs where someone is forced into working in conditions where they are exploited and their rights are breached, often involving trafficking, coercion or sexual Passengers are being asked to help Heathrow Airport pick out names for its new 20-plus strong fleet of purple cleaning robots, operated by facilities management company Mitie. Suggestions are being sought via email for "the perfect names to match the robots' personalities". Mitie has delivered cleaning services to all Heathrow terminals since The finalists for the 2026 Kimberly-Clark Professional Golden Service Awards in the UK have been announced. The winners will be announced during a celebration lunch on May 21 2026 in London. The awards recognise continued excellence, performance and commitment in the cleaning and facilities management sector. There are 50 finalists from 29 UNI Europa and the EFCI (European Cleaning and Facility Services Industry) - the social partners in the European Sectoral Dialogue Committee for Industrial Cleaning (the Industrial Cleaning SSDC) - have met to decide on their working programme for 2026-27. Since the establishment of a SSDC in 1999, the partners have dedicated themselves to Rail union RMT staged a demonstration last month calling for London Underground cleaning contracts to be brought back in-house. The protest took place outside City Hall to coincide with a Transport for London board meeting. The RMT understands that the London Underground cleaning contract is currently being re-tendered with ABM and Mitie the CBAi is the new AI training and strategy arm of PR and marketing agency Ceris Burns International - tailored for the cleaning, FM and environmental sectors. Founder Ceris Burns says a suite of resources has been developed to help those industries confidently apply artificial intelligence (AI) in practical, ethical and measurable ways. The
