Home | Join | Find Service | Courses | Log-In | Help Storm Damage Update 12/20/25 - We are experiencing high call volume. To find a certified water damage restoration service near you please click here. IJCSA Updates & Industry News Mother creates fake AI news broadcast to scare kids into cleaning rooms The mother used AI-powered video editing tools—reportedly including Adobe After Effects or Synthesia—to overlay footage of her children's toy-strewn rooms onto a mock news segment. Watch The Video Here Find A Home Cleaning Service Here More Cleaning & Janitorial News Here Bay Area care-home employee who left pitcher of cleaning fluid unattended, leading to deaths of two residents, sentenced to 40 days An East Palo Alto woman was sentenced to 40 days in county jail for accidentally killing two and hospitalizing one Atria Assisted Living Facility resident by serving them toxic cleaning fluid instead of juice for breakfast, San Mateo County District Attorney Steve Wagstaffe said. The woman, Alisia Rivera Mendoza, 36, previously pleaded no contest to felony elder abuse. In addition to her jail sentence, she received 350 hours of community service, two years of supervised probation and is banned from working in nursing homes and care facilities Mendoza — who worked at the facility — poured the toxic cleaning fluid into a pitcher, intending to use it to clean the kitchen after breakfast. However, another employee took the pitcher and poured it into the three residents’ glasses, the DA’s office said. The San Mateo Fire Department and 911 was called at the time of the ingestion. More at source: Daily Journal Discuss This Article Here Find A Green Cleaning Service Here Please be advised the office will be closed today in observance and remembrance of Veterans Day. Many consumers complained the one-time $19 cleaning came with an automatic enrollment in a six-month cleaning subscription, called ForeverClean. The subscription’s monthly fees were $49 to $59. But Homeaglow’s independent contractors also charge their own cleaning fees on top of Homeaglow’s fees, with prices varied by job. Some consumers who tried to cancel were told they’d owe hefty early termination fees, in some cases $150 to $210. Truth in Advertising has sent letters to the FTC and attorneys general in 12 states, including Illinois, and the District of Columbia asking them to investigate. The nonprofit organization says the automatic subscription model, which it contends is not clearly disclosed, violates state consumer protection laws and the federal Restore Online Shoppers’ Confidence Act of 2010, which protects consumers against so-called “negative option” marketing that employs automatic subscriptions without clear disclosures of the terms. The setup is “especially egregious” and “deceptive,” says Laura Smith, legal director for Truth in Advertising. Homeaglow agreed to pay $30,000 to settle a lawsuit filed last year by Pennsylvania, and it promised to clearly and conspicuously disclose its membership terms on its websites. More at source: WBEZ Chicago Find A Cleaning Service Here Murder, suicide and fatal workplace accidents leave emotional and psychological scars for colleagues who have to continue working in offices that became crime scenes. Those scenes often involve blood, body fluids and other biohazards that have to be cleaned up before a home or workplace can function again. Casper’s John Sleep, co-owner and general manager of the SERVPRO franchise, said his company gets a dozen or so calls a year, often from police victim’s services units, asking if his team can clean up a crime scene. More at the source: Cobwoy State Daily Find A Biohazard Cleaning Service Here Get Certified In Crime Scene Cleaning Here More Cleaning And Janitorial News Here Jasper City Schools officials are responding to a tuberculosis case that was identified at Jasper High School on Friday. School will continue as normal with “deep cleaning and sanitizing,” and officials announced in a recent release that they are following public health protocol to ensure the safety of students and staff. More at the source: AL.com The plaintiff slipped on a partially eaten hot dog while walking through the mall, suffering injuries that required knee and back surgeries. Her medical expenses totaled $277,000. Prior to trial, the highest settlement offer from the defendants was $75,000. The jury's award of more than $2 Million not only compensates the client for her injuries but also entitles the firm to attorney's fees and costs as the prevailing party under Florida's Proposal for Settlement statute. "This verdict reinforces the responsibility property owners and maintenance companies have to ensure public spaces are safe," said Senior Partner, Anthony Soto. "Our Litigators fought tirelessly to secure justice for our client, and we are proud of the outcome. More at source: PRN Newswire Find A Janitorial Service Here Gen Z's cleaning habits may reflect growing up in a world shaped by COVID-19, according to a recent study conducted by Ecovacs, a home service robotics company. The study suggests that stereotypes of young people as disorganized and lazy may no longer be accurate. Broadly, the report covers daily routines, common challenges, and unorthodox behaviors, broken down by gender, generation, and socioeconomic status. Ecovacs surveyed 1,000 US citizens. More At The Source: Jerusalem Post Across offices, retail spaces, and hospitality venues, businesses are making a smart shift: embracing green cleaning solutions. With growing awareness about environmental health, indoor air quality, and sustainable practices, companies are increasingly replacing harsh chemicals with eco-friendly alternatives. In today’s world, clean doesn’t just mean “tidy” — it means sanitized, safe, and healthy. Many traditional cleaning products contain volatile organic compounds (VOCs) that can trigger allergies, asthma, or irritation. Prolonged exposure to these chemicals can be harmful for employees and customers alike. Green cleaning products, on the other hand, are typically non-toxic, biodegradable, and free from harsh residues. By switching to these options, businesses create a safer indoor environment, which can lead to fewer sick days, better employee morale, and improved productivity. More at the source: Harlem World Magazine Behind every spotless floor, safe hallway and smoothly running business, there’s a champion. Today, Staples Business announces the launch of Everyday Champions, a national contest honoring the janitorial, sanitation and facility professionals who keep our workplaces running, often without recognition. More info here at Staples © Copyright 2004-2025 International Janitorial Cleaning Services Association "The Home Of Professional Cleaning Companies"
