It’s never too late to make a change to your home. While you might know the kinds of things you want to change in your house (change the kitchen, upgrade the living room) you might be stuck on how to do so. Not to worry. This article features some of the best home reno ideas you can use in your house. This list is a mix of DIY ideas that anyone can pull off, to more expansive home renovation ideas that will completely refresh how you view your home. Open Shelving Open shelving in kitchens and living rooms is a massive trend right now, and one of the best house renovation ideas you can have. There are numerous benefits to opting for these rather than closed cabinets. For a kitchen, it makes it more efficient to pull items off shelves, like plates or spices. It’s also a great way to showcase your personal style in your living groom, displaying curated books, souvenirs from your travels, or even indoor plants. Using natural wood gives the shelves a sturdy, natural feel, and is a great way to store items. Multi-Purpose Room With the COVID-19 pandemic, many people needed to begin working and studying from home. Therefore, having a multi-purpose room that can double as either a home office or a guest room is among the best home renovation ideas. If you have an office or a guest bedroom, one of the best house renovation ideas you can have is making the room more multipurpose. Installing a sofa bed, a Murphy bed, or even making room for a desk for a study corner, are fantastic investments. Outdoor Entertainment Deck There are a few things that define us Australians: welove the outdoors, and we love to host barbeques. Therefore, building an outdoor entertainment deck is a fantastic home renovation idea. Investing in an outdoor deck, made from either natural timber or composite decking, is an excellent way to transform a backyard. It makes it look more elegant, and is a way to extend the area of your home by functionally adding a new room with chairs, a table, and plants to make it look highly inviting. Rejig your Interior Lighting One of the easiest DIY house renovation ideas is to change some of the light sources in your home. When people come home, the first thing they do is turn on the ceiling lights, which are often cold and overly bright. These can make your home feel overwhelming, clinical, and not relaxing. You can circumvent this feeling by investing in standing or table lamps that emmit warm light in your home so that you can have a relaxing and homey environment to return to. If you’re feeling like making a bigger change, installing dimmers for your ceiling lights can also give you greater control over the amount of light in your room, making it perfect for movie nights in front of the TV without complete darkness. Breakfast Nook A frequent source of renovation inspiration, a breakfast nook is the most quintessential cozy and sought-after feature of every new home renovation. Perfect for having small meals by your window, drinking your morning coffee, or doing work on your laptop, harnessing the natural light of an east-facing window in the mornings makes it a great house renovation idea. Invest in plush seating and calming wooden textures to make your breakfast nook a sanctuary of relaxation before you face the day. Double-Glazed Windows For an out-of-the-box yet deeply important home reno idea, investing in double-glazed windows is a great quality-of-life improvement in your home. Made of two panes of glass, the effect creates a home that is cooler in the summer and warmer in the winter. While they aren’t a major visual change to your home, it will make it more enjoyable to live within, and can increase the property value of your home. Window Treatments On the subject of windows, an easy DIY house renovation idea is changing the blinds. Playing with fabric, texture, and transparency can make a huge difference in the atmosphere of the room. Heavy drapes give a luxurious and private look, and bamboo blinds can give a space an earthy and relaxed feel. Make sure to consider the colours you choose with the rest of the furniture in the room. It’s also just nice to upgrade your current blinds. If you have dinky and bent Venetian blinds, you can replace them with fixed wooden louvre shutters. They can be painted to add a pop of colour into the room, and don’t have to worry about any choking or tangling hazards with curtain cords. Turn Your Renovation Inspiration into Reality Today JVK & Sons are skilled carpenters and renovators making strides to be not just Australia’s most sought-after renovators, but also the most environmentally friendly. If you want to breathe life into your home, please contact us so we can help transform your home.
