5238 Satisfied customers 5238 Satisfied customers Jessica Consultant Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Hello, my name is***** am an attorney and am happy to help you today. Please remember I can only provide general legal information and not specific legal advice because there is no attorney-client relationship between us. I am sorry to hear you are having some trouble, legal issues can be very frustrating. Please give me a moment to review your question. Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Well the moving company would be in breach of the contract so you could sue for breach and request monetary damage and/or specific performance (an order requiring them to transport your items). Generally, before suing on this type of claim you would serve a demand letter. An attorney could draft this for you or you can draft it yourself. You identify the breach and demand they transport your items by a specific time period (5-10 business days for example). Advise them if they fail to comply, you will pursue legal action against them. That is often enough to resolve an issue because companies want to avoid litigation but if they are unresponsive- you may have to file suit. Ashley Paige Esq, Expert You're very welcome. If you hired alternate movers that were more expensive you could sue the original company for the amount you paid them plus the difference with the new movers. For example if the original movers were 10k and the new movers were 12k - you can sue the original company for reimbursement of the 10 and then an additional 2k to put you in the same position you were in prior to entering into the agreement. If you also incurred any additional expenses- rentals, storage costs anything like that that can also be included. Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Meaning you cannot get a windfall. If you were originally going to pay 10k for the moving, you still have to pay that amount - putting you in the position you would be in had the company complied. You cannot recover 22k (10k on their contract plus 12k for new movers) from the original movers using my above example. Does that make sense? Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Yes you could - the broker would likely in turn sue the movers but yes you could potentially file a claim against them as well. Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Yes, correct. If you had to stay in a hotel due to your belongings not arriving on time yes you could add those charges (but only for the dates after the 30 days) Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Do you have any additional follow up questions I can assist you with? Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Correct yes. Ashley Paige Esq, Expert No the demand letter is not an official claim. So you could serve the demand letter and/or file a claim with the DOT if that is what they advised. Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Well I would say given the potential delay going through the DOT, serve the demand letter and then proceed with a lawsuit if necessary. You are not required to file with the DOT. Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Yes given you are out of state, hiring an attorney would be best. If that explains everything to your satisfaction, I wish you the best of luck resolving this and getting your belongings. Take care and have a great week! If you have additional questions, you can save me as a favorite under your account or ask them directly to me here:https://www.justanswer.com/law/expert-ashleypaigeesq Please make sure you type "For Ashley Paige Esq. only" to ensure the question is directed at me. A positive rating for my answer and service is always appreciated. And thank you for using JustAnswer. Ashley Paige Esq, Expert You're very welcome, happy to help. Ok great. 5238 Satisfied customers 5238 Satisfied customers Jessica Consultant Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Hello, my name is***** am an attorney and am happy to help you today. Please remember I can only provide general legal information and not specific legal advice because there is no attorney-client relationship between us. I am sorry to hear you are having some trouble, legal issues can be very frustrating. Please give me a moment to review your question. Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Well the moving company would be in breach of the contract so you could sue for breach and request monetary damage and/or specific performance (an order requiring them to transport your items). Generally, before suing on this type of claim you would serve a demand letter. An attorney could draft this for you or you can draft it yourself. You identify the breach and demand they transport your items by a specific time period (5-10 business days for example). Advise them if they fail to comply, you will pursue legal action against them. That is often enough to resolve an issue because companies want to avoid litigation but if they are unresponsive- you may have to file suit. Ashley Paige Esq, Expert You're very welcome. If you hired alternate movers that were more expensive you could sue the original company for the amount you paid them plus the difference with the new movers. For example if the original movers were 10k and the new movers were 12k - you can sue the original company for reimbursement of the 10 and then an additional 2k to put you in the same position you were in prior to entering into the agreement. If you also incurred any additional expenses- rentals, storage costs anything like that that can also be included. Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Meaning you cannot get a windfall. If you were originally going to pay 10k for the moving, you still have to pay that amount - putting you in the position you would be in had the company complied. You cannot recover 22k (10k on their contract plus 12k for new movers) from the original movers using my above example. Does that make sense? Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Yes you could - the broker would likely in turn sue the movers but yes you could potentially file a claim against them as well. Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Yes, correct. If you had to stay in a hotel due to your belongings not arriving on time yes you could add those charges (but only for the dates after the 30 days) Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Do you have any additional follow up questions I can assist you with? Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Correct yes. Ashley Paige Esq, Expert No the demand letter is not an official claim. So you could serve the demand letter and/or file a claim with the DOT if that is what they advised. Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Well I would say given the potential delay going through the DOT, serve the demand letter and then proceed with a lawsuit if necessary. You are not required to file with the DOT. Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Yes given you are out of state, hiring an attorney would be best. If that explains everything to your satisfaction, I wish you the best of luck resolving this and getting your belongings. Take care and have a great week! If you have additional questions, you can save me as a favorite under your account or ask them directly to me here:https://www.justanswer.com/law/expert-ashleypaigeesq Please make sure you type "For Ashley Paige Esq. only" to ensure the question is directed at me. A positive rating for my answer and service is always appreciated. And thank you for using JustAnswer. Ashley Paige Esq, Expert You're very welcome, happy to help. Ok great.
