Article How to be sure moving legal work in-house is the right move This article is based upon the Practice Note, “Saving Costs by Bringing More Legal Work In-House,” one of the more than 65,000 resources available in Practical Law. In the past few years, there has been a trend to move more legal work in-house. According to the first annual report produced by Thomson Reuters and Acritas, in 2013, only 37 percent of the legal budget was spent in-house; by 2017, that percentage had risen to 43 percent. (2018 State of Corporate Law Departments: Innovation, Data and Collaboration Drive Optimal Results, Thomson Reuters and Acritas) Although saving legal costs is a major force behind this trend, there are many other benefits to moving legal work in-house, provided the law department has the internal resources to handle these matters competently, efficiently, and cost-effectively. If the department has such resources, then the next step before making a final decision to move matters in-house is to perform a thorough cost-benefit analysis. Essential elements of this analysis include: Current and anticipated tasks and responsibilities and their relative importance in supporting the company’s business objectives Size and organization of the law department Staff and their skills, expertise, experience, and workload Ability to minimize potential inefficiencies resulting from taking legal work from outside counsel who may have provided legal services to the company for many years Budget Volume of complex versus commodity work Outside counsel spend on company legal matters broken down by: Law firm Responsible in-house attorney Hourly billing rates for each outside attorney providing legal services A further point of comparison is to compare the hourly rate of outside counsel with that of an in-house attorney. To determine the in-house attorney’s hourly rate, take the cost of that attorney’s salary and benefits and divide by 2,000 hours of work. Typically, you’ll find that the in-house rate is easily one half or even one third that of outside counsel. If you determine that moving work in-house is both cost-efficient and plausible for your organization, the next step is to evaluate the staffing in your department and prioritize the matters to pull back. Related content How can Practical Law Connect help your department? Check out Practical Law Connect from Thomson Reuters, the legal know-how solution built by and for in-house counsel.
