4 self-study courses to be completed in 1 year Are you interested in working for large travel agencies, tour management or tour production companies? Or do you want to advance your career as a tour planner or a tour manager? Then IATA’s Tour Production diploma is the right pathway to your goal. This diploma comprises 4 courses, and is designed to provide an overview of the travel industry and then sharpen specific skills in the area of tour production, such as, advising your clients on the best tour options, creating customized tour packages for niche customers, recommending group and luxury travel options and advising on modes of transportation, accommodation and tours. The courses selected are designed to progressively build up the essential skills and accelerate the development of advanced skills. Thus, the learning path provides the fastest and most effective route to your dream career. Course code : DIPL-129 Upon completion of this diploma, you will be able to: Identify and consult on popular international travel and tourism destinations Negotiate effectively and generate good deals for customers Create inclusive-tour production for special-interest groups Sell rail travel, car rental, hotel accommodation, cruises and pre-packaged tour products Advise customers on passport and visa requirements, as well as on travel insurance options Provide excellent customer service and retain customer loyalty Develop entrepreneurial mindset and propose creative solutions and services Key topics The key topics that are covered in this diploma include: Rail, hotel, car rental, cruise and tour products Air transport products and services Tour, luxury and group travel options Sales techniques Managerial and negotiation skills E-commerce in the travel industry Recommended level Entry-level Intermediate This diploma is recommended for: Travel advisors Reservations and customer support personnel Tour operators Agency back-office personnel How to register This diploma program consists of 4 required courses , all of which must be completed within 1 year . Please contact us if you are interested in taking this diploma. As you complete each course, it will be added to your training history found under My Training << Learn status << Completed . Once all the necessary courses are successfully completed, your diploma will be awarded and made available for download from your training profile.
