Get a smart scale, a personalized action plan and ongoing expert coaching and support—all paid for by your employer or health plan. Claim your benefit today. included Your employer, health plan or healthcare provider has your back. They’ve already covered the entire cost of the program for you. WEIGHT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM Important notice on devices* Your health goals and challenges are unique. Get personalized tools and support from expert coaches to help you take care of your health. Here's what some of our members have to say: This program helped me when I thought that nothing could help me. I've learned small tweaks that have really helped me drastically. I'm down 20-25 pounds since starting Livongo. Rashida R. I have confidence that I don't think I've ever had. Yes, the number on the scale is a tool, a resource, but it doesn't run my life as it did a year ago. Nancy G. I'm down 20 pounds. I have energy, I have a bounce in my step and I feel alive. My anxiety and appetite are controlled. Annie L. I was in the right place, in the right frame of mind and the right program came along. It's not a diet. It's my life, and the important thing was getting my life back. Bob M. Yes! It is completely at no cost to you. Your employer, health plan or health provider pays for the program on your behalf. Shipping is included too. You are not billed anything for joining and using Teladoc Health. After you enroll, you will be shipped the Teladoc Health Welcome Kit. Your Welcome Kit includes the Teladoc Health scale for you to start checking your weight. You'll also be able to download and log in to the Teladoc Health mobile app, where you can personalize your program and see your progress. Teladoc Health takes your privacy seriously. Your health information is protected by federal and state laws, including HIPAA. Please see our Notice of Privacy Practices for more information on how Teladoc Health uses your health information. You must be eligible through your employer, health plan or health provider. If you are pregnant or have a body mass index (BMI) that's too low, you do not qualify for our Weight Management program. If you have diabetes, you may qualify for our Weight Management program, but you do not qualify for our Diabetes Prevention Program. Chat with us or call us at 800-835-2362 if you have questions regarding your eligibility. We do ask that you download the Teladoc Health app so you get the most out of Teladoc Health, including easy weight, activity and food tracking. You can download the Teladoc Health app here. Teladoc Health care providers can prescribe GLP-1s for weight loss for eligible members enrolled in Weight Management when clinically appropriate. It depends on many factors: You must be enrolled in our Weight Management program that offers GLP-1 care. This program offers additional support beyond our standard Weight Management program. Your employer or plan sponsor must opt in to access this program. You must meet certain clinical criteria. Once enrolled, you need to schedule a visit with a Teladoc Health care provider. They’ll assess whether a GLP-1 medication is right for you. Members must also have already shown a strong attempt at lifestyle modifications and were unsuccessful. Depending on your program, you may need to schedule a visit with a Teladoc Health care provider. If not, you can schedule a visit with your regular primary care provider. During your visit, your care provider will review your medical history and your current and previous medications. If you meet certain criteria, the care provider may suggest starting a weight loss medication. Together, you can decide if it’s right for you. Your care provider will also educate you on how to use it, the expected impact, side effects, and how to monitor it. After your care provider submits the prescription, it may take several weeks to get it filled. You can expect some administrative follow-up to get the medication approved. Check with your insurance provider to learn about any requirements you may need to meet: You may need prior authorization. You may need to meet program engagement requirements to get your medication covered. You or your provider may need to submit more documentation, prior authorizations or appeal letters if the medication is denied. You’ll be informed if the medication is denied. And your provider may suggest a different one. Out-of-pocket costs for these medications are quite high. Your insurance may or may not cover the cost of certain GLP-1s. If you're concerned about costs, we have discounted self-pay options available. There are also patient assistance programs that may help with costs. However, many programs expire after some time. *Livongo is now part of Teladoc Health, and we are in a brand transition phase. You may receive Livongo-branded and Teladoc Health-branded products during this transition. Other than brand name, there is no difference between products. The testimonials, opinions and statements reflect one individuals' personal experience with Teladoc Health. Results and experiences may vary from person to person and will be unique to each individual. The testimonials are voluntarily provided and are not paid. The individual in the photo is not the individual who provided this testimonial. The device or devices and any components shown are representative examples only. The actual model you receive may be different.
