4 Different Ways to Arrange Your Living Room Furniture To me, a functional floorplan is the foundation of a well-designed home. I wanted to show you how with a little creative thinking and problem solving you can arrange the furniture four different ways in a living or family room. When I start working with a new client I usually walk into a space and see the potential of what it could be. Not in a judgmental way! I’m not picking apart what is wrong with the cosmetics of a house or room so much as I immediately begin to visualize how this space can be best utilized for the homeowner. When I was a visual merchandiser for a well-known young adult retailer I loved when it came time to do a floor-set and move the fixtures around! From season to season we had the exact same pieces to work with but by arranging them in a different layout we could make it feel like a totally new store to the customers. Here’s a little secret, you can do the same thing in your house!! I know not everyone is a big fan of change but for those of us out there that like to keep things fresh and moving it’s nice to have the option to switch things up every once in a while. Sure some rooms are pretty locked into their “ideal” floor plan, like dining rooms. Unless you’re really swapping out furniture pieces most of the time the table sits in the center with chairs around. But, for living rooms, family rooms, offices, bedrooms, and outdoor living spaces the floor plan arrangements are endless! Note: I’m not mentioning kitchens. That’s a whole different ballgame, we’re talking about quick changes today ! There are a few things to take into consideration like doorways, openings into a room, window placement, closets, stairways, etc. You do need to be mindful of traffic patterns to make accessing a space and the furniture within fairly easy. General walk-way clearances in a home can be slightly narrower than in commercial settings. Not to toot my own horn here but I feel like this is my bread and butter! I love to come up with different floor plan layouts for clients, friends, family members, and my own home. If I really think back I do believe this is what got me hooked on Interior Design as a little girl. I loved to rearrange my room as a kid, for no other purpose than I just got bored with how it looked! And let me tell you my room was TINY with a capital T, but damn it I made the most of every inch of that room! I guess that’s where my knack for space planning kicked off?! Anyhoo! Just a little background story to get us started. I do think it’s how my brain is programmed to think at this point. I’ve always been a picture person. Words, not so much my thing! (hence why it’s taken me 6 years to really start blogging, so bear with me all your grammar guru’s, I’m learning!) Rooms are rarely perfect squares with symmetrical window placement or centered fireplaces. There’s always an awkward corner, window or doorway you need to accommodate. Unless you have the luxury of building a totally custom home, often times you have to make the best of the space allotted. And even after years of living in your custom home, you may just need a change! When I start working with a client we go through a pretty detailed questionnaire regarding how they hope to use the space. Some may argue there are rules to design. While I may partly agree, I think of them more as guidelines. Nothing is set in stone. There’s no right or wrong (well okay maybe some things are just wrong) but I think you all understand what I mean! There are many ways to design a floor plan, you can have multiple solutions to the same problem. It all really comes down to the person or family who will use the space. For instance, a family with 2 - 3 young kids may require a different layout than say a young professional who’s living on their own. If it is a room whose purpose revolves around TV viewing AND has a fireplace then oh, boy! The real debate begins! What gets priority, the TV or the fireplace? How can you accommodate both? Well, let’s take a look! Here is a living/family room measuring 23’-0” x 13’-0”, with 10’-0” ceilings, a fireplace, five windows, and two doorways stepping down into the room. These doorways lead to separate areas of the home. As you can see this is a long narrow room, with some architectural features that need to be taken into consideration. Below are four different furniture arrangements. Each offers various solutions to accommodate the client’s unique needs. Let’s discuss Option 1 In this particular layout, the goal was to create a more intimate conversational area. We placed two small-scale sofas opposite each other, with end tables centered around a circular coffee table. The 8’x10’ area rug helps define the space. Yes, there is a TV on the console table opposite the fireplace but it is not the primary focus of the room. We were also able to fit in a nice little workspace by placing a desk under the rear window with two tall bookcases for extra storage. The height of the bookcases helps to anchor that wall. By keeping the scale of the furniture relatively modest and off the walls, we allowed the room to breathe. Option 2 In this option, the primary use of the room would be for entertainment. We wanted to maximize seating options and offer flexibility by creating multiple conversation areas. In this layout we did mount the TV above the fireplace, placing a full-sized sofa and console table on the opposite wall. The two club chairs under the front windows are connected to the main seating area by a bench. We added a complimentary chair and ottoman, and a window seat with built-in bookcases. Using multiple coordinating area rugs again helps define the space and offers a cozy element. Option 3 Here, our focus is family. Using the ever-popular sectional we’ve provided seating for primetime movie watching, game night, or just hanging out. Once again the TV is mounted above the fireplace. We kept the entrance points into the room as open as possible to allow for high traffic flow. If you need a quiet moment to yourself we placed extra seating behind the sectional. A multipurpose bench under the front windows could provide storage, an extra play surface, or a place to catch your breath as you run out the front door! And finally, Option 4 In our fourth plan we took a more traditional approach. A clean open layout can take advantage of and highlight the great natural lighting provided by the five windows. We’ve placed the TV on a console table opposite the fireplace and two full sized sofas across from each other. This allows you to take in both the ambiance of a cozy fire and enjoy your favorite Netflix binge. A small desk behind the sofa adds to the traditional style and provides a multipurpose piece. So there you have it! I’ve shown you four different floor plan options for one room, but the possibilities are endless! There is no right or wrong in this situation. Some things to keep in mind when applying to your own space; scale, proportions, traffic flow, balance and practicality. The most important aspect is determining what layout works for you! Tell me, have I encouraged you to shift things around in your own home? Perhaps, this will help you start to think outside the box (or 4 walls - hah, sorry I had to )! Let me know in the comments if you’d like me to show you arrangements for other types of rooms. Or, if I have stirred up some feelings of discomfort with your own space, but you’re still totally lost on how to improve the floor plan, give us a call! We would be happy to help you with our residential interior design services!
