The Hartford does not currently offer this coverage online for small businesses, but we recognize that this is a coverage many businesses need. You may be able to get the coverage you're looking for through a local agency or with Tivly. What Is Livery Insurance Livery insurance is a type of commercial auto insurance for businesses that generate income through transporting people, like taxis, limos, ridesharing and black car services. This insurance coverage can help provide financial protection for your business, drivers and passengers if you get into an accident while on the job. For-hire livery insurance may not apply to businesses that occasionally offer transportation, such as hotel shuttle services. Although The Hartford does not offer livery insurance, we’ve partnered with Tivly to help you get the coverage you’re looking for. What Is a Livery Driver? A livery driver is a for-hire driver that generates business revenue through transporting people. The types of drivers that typically qualify as livery businesses are taxis, rideshare drivers for Uber and Lyft, limo services and black car drivers. Keep in mind that some insurance companies may not offer livery insurance for Uber and Lyft drivers. Livery Insurance Requirements May Vary by State Insurance requirements for livery businesses vary by state. In some states, you may need more coverage than other states, which could affect your livery insurance cost. It’s a good idea to check your state’s local laws to find out what types of auto insurance you’ll need to keep your livery business safe while out on the road. See commercial auto insurance state requirements. Keep in mind that livery insurance is not like regular auto insurance. It typically has higher liability limits and covers business-related risks that regular car insurance doesn’t protect against. Types of For-Hire Livery Insurance When it comes to protecting your business, having the right type of coverage makes a difference when you need it most. Whether you run a transportation business or use your personal vehicle for a rideshare business, you’ll want to make sure you have liability protection if you get into an accident. There are many different types of for-hire livery insurance options available, including: Taxi Insurance to help protect taxi drivers, their vehicles and passengers if they’re involved in an accident that causes bodily injury or property damage while the taxi is in service. Taxi businesses face unique risks because they’re often located in cities or around airports. This type of transportation is unscheduled and luxury cars are not typically used in these cases. Black Car/Limousine Insurance , which is a liability coverage designed to protect black car and limo services that offer pre-arranged transportation with designated pick-up and drop-off locations. This type of for-hire livery business commonly uses luxury vehicles. Rideshare Insurance to help protect vehicles that are used for rideshare services, like Uber and Lyft. This type of livery insurance offers more customized coverage that extends your basic auto insurance policy limits. Non-Emergency Medical Transportation Insurance , which is available in some states for businesses that offer pre-arranged transportation services to individuals who are traveling to or from medical treatment. This type of insurance does not protect ambulances or other emergency vehicles. How Much Does Livery Insurance Cost? The cost of for-hire livery insurance often varies, but there are a number of different factors that could influence your insurance cost. Some of these factors include: The state you’re located in The type of vehicle(s) Your driving history The types of coverage you choose Your selected limits Get a Livery Insurance Quote We understand the unique risks that livery drivers face while on the road. Protecting yourself and your business while you transport passengers is crucial. Find coverage you can count on and get a quote for livery insurance through our partner, Tivly. Not quite what you’re looking for? Check out other commercial auto coverages: Last Updated: June 28, 2024 Additional disclosures below.
