Insurance to help protect you Whether you are logged on or have accepted a rideshare¹ or delivery trip, Uber’s insurance meets—or exceeds—the required coverage. If you’ve been in an accident, here’s what to do. What rideshare and delivery drivers should know about coverage When you earn with a transportation network company (TNC), referred to here as ridesharing, most states require extra—and costly—insurance. Uber maintains this commercial insurance on your behalf. What’s covered depends on factors such as who was at fault; whether you were offline, online, en route, or on-trip; and your personal insurance policy. Learn more about the commercial insurance coverage Uber maintains on your behalf below. Coverage when you’re offline Your personal auto insurance covers you while you’re offline. You must maintain personal automobile insurance at mandatory minimum limits and provide proof of your insurance to drive and deliver with a vehicle with Uber. Coverage to repair your car when you’re en route to or on a trip is contingent on your personal insurance including comprehensive and collision coverage. Coverage when you’re online and available for a trip Accidents happen. Suppose you’re at fault and another person gets hurt or their vehicle gets damaged. In that case, our third-party liability insurance covers the cost of injuries or damage in at least the following amounts: $50,000 per person and $100,000 per accident for injuries $25,000 in property damage per accident Depending on the law of your state, Uber may maintain extra coverage for you and your riders, including one or more of the following²: Coverage for you and your riders for injuries in a hit-and-run or an accident caused by an uninsured or underinsured driver Personal injury protection, including medical expenses and lost wages for you and your riders, no matter who’s at fault Medical payments coverage for you and your riders, no matter who’s at fault Coverage when you’re en route or on a trip Uber maintains some of the most comprehensive insurance for ridesharing and deliveries, including: Insurance that covers at least $1,000,000 for property damage and injuries to riders and third parties involved in an accident where you’re at fault Insurance that covers the cost to repair your car, up to the actual cash value, with a $2,500 deductible, contingent on your personal insurance including comprehensive and collision coverage.³ This extra insurance maintained by Uber protects your car, no matter who’s at fault, if you maintain comprehensive and collision coverage on your own vehicle. In most US states, you can also purchase Optional Injury Protection to cover your additional medical expenses if you’re hurt in an accident. This insurance offering, pioneered by Uber, is designed specifically for drivers. Depending on the law of your state, Uber may maintain extra coverage for you and your riders, including one or more of the following²: Coverage for you and your riders for injuries in a hit-and-run or an accident caused by an uninsured or underinsured driver Personal injury protection, including medical expenses and lost wages for you and your riders, no matter who’s at fault Medical payments coverage for you and your riders, no matter who’s at fault Looking for more details on insurance maintained by Uber in your state for ridesharing? See the Certificates of Insurance here. You can also access the Certificates of Insurance in your Driver app. From the menu, choose Account , then select Insurance . What to do in an accident We’re committed to everyone’s safety. For a brief overview of what to do when you're involved in an accident while on the Uber platform, watch this video or read the steps below: Step 1 Ensure that everyone involved is OK. If there are injuries or damage, contact the police and paramedics. Be sure to save the police report number if there is one. Step 2 Take photos of any damage to the vehicles involved, including your own, and get the contact and insurance information of other involved drivers and riders. We recommend taking photos of the accident location, too, if it’s safe to do so. Step 3 The easiest way to report a crash is through the Driver app. Select the Safety Toolkit by tapping the blue shield symbol in the bottom left corner of the map, then tap Report a crash . Report what happened and submit your claim. Or to speak with our trained support staff, choose Safety from the Help section of your app, then select Safety Incident Reporting Line. You can also submit a crash report here. Whichever path you choose, please complete this process as soon as it’s reasonable to do so. After your claim is submitted, a notification will show up on your Driver app homepage directing you to the Crash Center. This is your go-to resource for contacting Uber’s insurer, viewing your claim’s status, seeing rental car options, and more. What riders should do Riders can report an accident here. What anyone else involved should do Third parties can report an accident here. Optional coverage for extra peace of mind If Optional Injury Protection is available in your state and you choose to purchase it, coverage is available to you and your family members in case you’re injured in an accident and can’t work. Optional Injury Protection covers disability payments, medical expenses with no deductibles, and survivor benefit payments for your family members. This insurance offering, which Uber pioneered, is designed specifically for Rides and Delivery drivers. Coverage for commercial drivers If you’re a commercial driver using a commercial vehicle, such as a licensed for-hire vehicle, black car, limousine, livery vehicle, or taxi, you must have your own commercial insurance to drive with Uber. Frequently asked questions Do I need insurance? As required by law, you must maintain personal automobile insurance at mandatory minimum limits and provide proof of your insurance to drive with Uber. Uber maintains commercial auto insurance on your behalf for ridesharing and delivery activities when you’re driving on our platform. When you’re not driving with Uber, you maintain your own personal auto insurance. Coverage to repair your car when you’re en route or on a trip is contingent on your personal insurance including comprehensive and collision coverage. Many personal auto insurers offer additional insurance for rideshare or delivery drivers, but this is not required for you to sign up to drive with Uber. Contact your insurance agent, broker, or company for details. Where can I view the coverages and limits of insurance that Uber maintains on my behalf? View more details on insurance currently maintained by Uber in your state for ridesharing by accessing Certificates of Insurance here. You can also access the Certificates of Insurance in your Driver app. From the menu, choose Account , then select Insurance . Does Uber maintain uninsured/underinsured motorist coverage (UM/UIM) on behalf of riders and drivers? The insurance coverages and limits maintained by Uber, including uninsured/underinsured ("UM/UIM"), vary by state and have changed over time. Uber maintains UM/UIM for rideshare in states where it is required by law. Uber does not maintain UM/UIM for rideshare or delivery in every state. View more details on insurance currently maintained by Uber in your state for ridesharing by accessing Certificates of Insurance here. Optional Injury Protection insurance, which provides similar benefits to UM/UIM, is available to rideshare drivers and delivery drivers in most states. Find out more about Optional Injury Protection insurance here. Riders may have UM/UIM benefits available to them through their own insurance. Does the insurance that Uber maintains on behalf of drivers cover regular maintenance on my car? No. As an independent contractor, you’re responsible for your car maintenance. Am I still covered if I rent a vehicle through Uber’s vehicle solutions partners? All rental offers available through Uber's Vehicle Marketplace include insurance. Some partners offer the option to purchase additional insurance. What about commercially licensed and insured drivers? If you drive for Uber and are commercially licensed to operate commercial vehicles, such as black cars, for-hire vehicles, limousines, livery vehicles, or taxis, you're required to have your own commercial auto insurance. How do I purchase my own insurance, beyond what Uber maintains for me? Expanding your personal auto insurance to include rideshare and delivery coverage could provide you with greater protection and get you back on the road faster in the event of an accident. These insurers may offer personal rideshare and delivery insurance coverage options: AAA Esurance State Farm Allstate Farmers Travelers American Family Liberty Mutual USAA Amica Mercury Erie Progressive Contact your insurance agent, broker, or company to learn about personal and commercial options. Who does Uber buy insurance from? The specific insurance requirements (the coverages and their limits) vary by jurisdiction. Go here to discover which carriers we work with in each state, plus Puerto Rico and Washington, DC. What can I do to help bring down insurance costs in my state? We’re committed to doing what we can to keep these costs down for you and your customers. Legislative action is needed to curb the skyrocketing costs of rideshare insurance. Uber is leading advocacy efforts across the country to push for and pass commonsense legislative changes. In 2023, for example, Georgia Governor Kemp signed an Uber-supported bill to lower rideshare insurance requirements. Immediately after that, Uber reinvested those savings to lower customer prices by approximately $0.75 per trip across the state.* You can help. Sign up to take action in your state. *Calculated on an average basis, from July to August 2023, following a decrease in insurance rates that Uber reinvested into reduced Booking Fees across Georgia trips. What do I do in the event of an accident? We’re committed to everyone’s safety. For a brief overview of what to do when you're involved in an accident while on the Uber platform, watch this video or read the steps below: For drivers Ensure that everyone involved is OK. If there are injuries or damage, contact the police and paramedics. Be sure to save the police report number if there is one. Take photos of any damage to the vehicles involved, including your own, and get the contact and insurance information of other involved drivers and riders. We recommend taking photos of the accident location, too, if it’s safe to do so. The easiest way to report a crash is through the Driver app. Select the Safety Toolkit by tapping the blue shield symbol in the bottom left corner of the map, then tap Report a crash . Report what happened and submit your claim. Or to speak with our trained support staff, choose Safety from the Help section of your app, then select Safety Incident Reporting Line. You can also submit a crash report here. Whichever path you choose, please complete this process as soon as it’s reasonable to do so. After your claim is submitted, a notification will show up on your Driver app homepage directing you to the Crash Center. This is your go-to resource for contacting Uber’s insurer, viewing your claim’s status, seeing rental car options, and more. For riders Riders may report an accident here. For other parties Other parties may report an accident here. If I’m in an accident, will Uber’s insurance cover a rental car for me? No, it won’t. While your car is being repaired, you can explore available rental options on the Vehicle Marketplace to get back on the road. The Vehicle Marketplace is accessible through the Driver Crash Center. Get more details here. For repairs to your vehicle, as long as you maintain comprehensive and collision coverage on your personal auto insurance, and as long as you were en route or on a trip, the insurance that Uber maintains on behalf of drivers will kick in. If applicable, this insurance goes toward repairs and replacement for your car up to its actual cash value. You must pay a $2,500 deductible before this coverage applies.³ What insurance applies if I’m injured in an accident? If you’re injured in an accident while driving on the Uber platform, potential sources of recovery for your injuries may include: The liability insurance of the other driver. Depending on your state, your app status at the time of accident (online, en route, or on-trip), and whether you are providing rideshare or delivery services, Uber may maintain: Personal injury protection, which includes medical expenses and lost wages for you and your riders Medical payments coverage for you and your riders Coverage for you and your riders for injuries in a hit-and-run or an accident caused by an uninsured or underinsured driver * In addition, depending on your state, you may be able to opt in for Optional Injury Protection insurance, which provides coverage for your own medical expenses, disability, and survivor benefits while you’re online, en route, or on-trip. Go here to learn more.* What insurance applies if my vehicle is damaged? Once you’ve accepted a ride request on the Uber platform, Uber maintains insurance on your behalf to cover the cost to repair your car, up to the actual cash value, with a $2,500 deductible (or may be $1,000 if you’re operating a vehicle obtained through the Uber Vehicle Marketplace), contingent on your personal insurance including comprehensive and collision coverage.³ This extra insurance maintained by Uber protects your car, no matter who’s at fault. Please note that there’s no Uber-maintained collision or comprehensive coverage if (1) you’re offline, (2) you are online but haven’t yet accepted a trip, or (3) you don’t maintain comprehensive and collision insurance on your personal insurance policy. If you don’t already have comprehensive and collision coverage, you may want to contact your personal auto insurance carrier to inquire about such coverage. You must maintain comprehensive and collision insurance on your personal auto policy to be eligible for comprehensive and collision insurance maintained by Uber. Rideshare-specific endorsements for additional coverage while operating on the Uber platform may also be available under your personal auto policy through your personal insurance carrier. What insurance applies if I am at fault for an accident? If you were online and available for a trip at the time of the accident, Uber maintains insurance on your behalf to cover your liability for the cost of property damage and injuries to riders and third parties involved in the accident in at least the following amounts: While online and available for a trip: $50,000 per person and $100,000 per accident for injuries $25,000 in property damage per accident While en route or on a trip: At least $1,000,000 for property damage and injuries to riders and third parties involved in an accident What is injury protection? Injury protection is insurance designed to protect drivers against covered injuries. This insurance provides benefits for medical expenses, disability, loss of life, and dismemberment while you’re online or on a trip. In 42 states, you may purchase Optional Injury Protection for $0.024 per mile ($0.022 per mile in Washington). Optional Injury Protection is not offered in all states. Learn more here. In California, Uber maintains Occupational Accident insurance for rideshare and delivery drivers for accidents that occur while you’re online and waiting for a trip in California or on the way to a pickup or on a trip originating in California. Occupational Accident insurance is provided automatically for California rideshare and delivery drivers, and no sign up is needed. Coverage includes medical expenses, disability payments, and survivor benefits. You’re not covered when driving your vehicle for personal use. In Massachusetts, effective October 1, 2024, Massachusetts Rides drivers have Occupational Accident insurance paid for by Uber. Occupational Accident insurance is provided automatically for Uber drivers for accidents that occur while you’re online and waiting for a passenger trip in Massachusetts, or on the way to pickup a passenger in Massachusetts, or on a Rides trip originating in Massachusetts. No sign up is needed. Coverage includes medical expenses, disability payments, and survivor benefits. For protection on delivery trips, Massachusetts Rides drivers and delivery persons are eligible to enroll in Optional Injury Protection. Learn more about Optional Injury Protection here. You’re not covered by Occupational Accident insurance or Optional Injury Protection when driving your vehicle for personal use. In Minnesota, effective January 1, 2025, Minnesota Rides drivers have Occupational Accident insurance paid for by Uber. Occupational Accident insurance is provided automatically for Uber drivers for accidents that occur while you’re on the way to pickup a passenger in Minnesota or on a Rides trip originating in Minnesota. No sign up is needed. Coverage includes medical expenses, disability payments, and survivor benefits. Washington rideshare drivers who sustain injuries while en route to pick up riders and during Rides trips may be eligible for workers’ compensation insurance coverage. Workers’ compensation insurance is provided automatically for Washington Rides drivers during these periods, and no sign up is needed. Washington drivers and delivery persons remain eligible to enroll in Optional Injury Protection and pay a lower rate of $0.022 per mile, which will provide coverage while on-line (but before accepting a trip) and while completing deliveries. You’re not covered by workers’ compensation insurance or Optional Injury Protection when driving your vehicle for personal use. How do I file a claim under injury protection? For drivers with Optional Injury Protection, you may submit a claim within 20 days of the accident through the online form here. You may call 844-747-6221 (toll-free), 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, or email ondemandcf@intactinsurance.com. For California drivers, you may submit a claim through the online form here or by calling 480-931-3573. For Massachusetts and Minnesota drivers, you may submit a claim by providing written notice of a loss within 90 days of the accident through the online form here. To request a physical claim form, you may call 844-747-4681 (toll-free), 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For Washington rideshare drivers, rideshare drivers can file a workers’ compensation claim with the Washington Department of Labor & Industries. To file a claim call 1-800-547-8367 or click here. The amount on my Customer Fare Breakdown screen going toward “Est. commercial auto insurance and operational expenses" seems really high. Is insurance really that expensive? Yes and there are a couple reasons why. First, many state governments put in place excessively high insurance requirements on TNC/rideshare platforms like Uber. For context, state-mandated commercial insurance requirements can be up to 50 times that of personal vehicles. In addition, some states require rideshare drivers to be covered by a unique kind of insurance called “Uninsured / Underinsured Motorist Insurance” (UM/UIM). UM/UIM applies when other drivers are at fault. In some states, no other type of vehicle operator — personal, taxi, or commercial bus — has to buy insurance to cover accidents caused by another driver, let alone at the high limits sometimes required for TNC/rideshare platforms. These high insurance limits have made the rideshare industry a target for personal injury lawsuits, even in cases where drivers nor Uber are not at fault. Fraudulent claims and outsized settlements inflate costs, driving up insurance premiums year over year. The cost of rides insurance in the US has increased by more than 50% per trip over the past three years. Why is the cost of commercial auto insurance “estimated”? Why do these amounts sometimes vary week-to-week even when I did similar trips? Uber calculates “Est. commercial auto insurance” by estimating the risk-related costs of a given trip. The likelihood of a trip resulting in an accident varies based on a number of factors including distance, duration, location, time of day, and weather. For example, a trip on a rainy day is more likely to result in an accident than the same trip on a sunny day. This amount is not specifically tied to per-trip insurance costs, but the variation at the national level is typically minor. Why does Uber use some of this money for “operational expenses”? "Operational expenses" is intended to account for the insurance related costs of various personal injury lawsuits, as well as the variation in the actual insurance costs relative to the amount shown. Is there anything that can be done to reduce these insurance costs? Uber is leading advocacy efforts across the country to push for and pass commonsense legislative changes that keep all trips covered while bringing down costs so more of the rider’s fare ends up where it belongs: in the driver’s pocket. By fixing TNC insurance requirements, we will be able to ensure consumers are only paying for the protections they need, not profits for special interests and billboard lawyers. US Certificates of Insurance United States US Territories & Districts ¹The rideshare insurance discussed here does not apply to commercially insured livery drivers. ²The insurance coverages discussed here do not apply to commercially insured livery drivers. For rideshare services, these coverages vary by state and are not available countrywide. These coverages are not typically available for delivery services. However, these coverages will always be available in states where required by law. ³May apply to damage to your vehicle as long as you have personal insurance that includes comprehensive and collision coverage for that vehicle to cover you while you’re not using the Driver app. If you only maintain liability insurance on your personal vehicle, you will not be eligible for contingent comprehensive and collision coverage. Uber does not provide comprehensive or collision coverage in any instance for commercially insured livery drivers, or for delivery drivers’ vehicles for Uber Eats trips in the state of New York. Comprehensive and collision coverage on vehicles rented through the Vehicle Marketplace may be subject to a $1,000 deductible. *The insurance coverages and limits maintained by Uber, including uninsured/underinsured ("UM/UIM"), vary by state and have changed over time. Uber maintains UM/UIM for rideshare in states where it is required by law. Uber does not maintain UM/UIM for rideshare or delivery in every state. View more details on insurance currently maintained by Uber in your state for ridesharing by accessing Certificates of Insurance here. Optional Injury Protection insurance, which provides similar benefits to UM/UIM, is available to rideshare drivers and delivery drivers in most states. Find out more about Optional Injury Protection insurance here. Riders may have UM/UIM benefits available to them through their own insurance. Select your preferred language About Explore Jobs by city Select your preferred language Select your preferred language About Explore Jobs by city
