Sometimes, life can get messy, but with Sophia’s Cleaning Service, you don’t have to stress about cleaning your Hinsdale home. Our team of licensed and skilled house cleaners has 41 years of experience. We specialize in high-quality commercial and residential cleaning services in Hinsdale, IL. Trust us to take care of the mess while you focus on what matters most. See how your current cleaner’s rates stack up with our complete Chicago home cleaning prices study. Your Local Hinsdale Cleaning Professionals Sophia’s Cleaning Service has been your trusted cleaning company in Hinsdale for 41 years. Our mission is to provide exceptional office and house cleaning at affordable and reliable prices. Indeed, we always go the extra mile. This means deep cleaning every corner to promote a hygienic and productive environment. We studied 420+ reviews and found that customers mention thoroughness and attention to detail more than any other quality. Being a local cleaning company, we strive to maintain the beauty of the village’s picturesque downtown and historic homes. Our teams of licensed cleaners and maids use state-of-the-art techniques and eco-friendly cleaning products to make your space look its best. Many Hinsdale homeowner remark how they’ve never seen their home so clean after our professional crews finish their first visit! Let Us Clean While You Enjoy Hinsdale, Illinois Located in DuPage County and Cook County, Hinsdale, Illinois, is home to historic treasures like the Graue Mill and Museum. The village’s charming Victorian architecture and lively community events create a unique atmosphere for tourists and residents. Hiring Sophia’s professional cleaning services means you can enjoy the town’s culture and fun activities more. With its lively streets and well-kept homes, Hinsdale deserves the care of cleaning experts who understand the value of a clean and inviting environment. Our professional team is ready to handle your cleaning needs efficiently without compromising quality. No matter the cleaning you want, we will ensure that you come home to a sparkling, clean, and fresh environment every time. With an expert cleaning team on your side, you don’t have to spend your precious time cleaning. What Maid Services Do You Offer? Sophia’s cleaning and maid services are on a mission to relieve the cleaning stress of Hinsdale’s homeowners. No matter what kind of cleaning or housekeeping services you need, we have you covered! Looking for safe ways to protect your countertops and glass? Check out our hard water stain cleaning guide. Full House Cleaning Get your home sparkling clean with our full house cleaning services without lifting a finger. Whether it’s cleaning your baseboards, kitchen, or the basement, we ensure every corner shines in your healthy, clean home. From vacuuming and mopping floors to sanitizing your kitchen, our local cleaning experts will refresh your home like no one else. Eco-Friendly Green Cleaning Indeed, our exceptionally rated house cleaners specialize in eco-friendly and green cleaning services. Accordingly, we can use the safest cleaning supplies from premium brands to ensure your space looks and smells great. All while being conscious of our environmental impact. Spending just 15 minutes on these preparation tips can help your cleaners focus on deep cleaning instead of tidying. Commercial Cleaning Present a pristine and professional office environment to your clients and employees. Our expert team handles everything in commercial spaces using the best cleaning methods. You can trust Sophia’s commercial cleaning professionals to keep your office or retail space in top shape. Accordingly, we’ve been cleaning commercial properties and storefronts in Hinsdale for 41 years. We strive to maintain a spotless commercial setting that makes the perfect first impression and keeps the employees healthy. Recurring Cleanings Keep your space consistently clean with our recurring cleaning service options. You can schedule weekly, bi-weekly, or monthly cleanings and enjoy a clean home continuously. This includes commercial janitorial services as well as recurring office cleanings. Unquestionably, recurring cleanings are the easiest way to save money when hiring our top-rated cleaning service. Hinsdale homeowners know that spring and summer bring more than just warm weather. Flies can quickly become a nuisance indoors. Learn how to get rid of flies and keep your Hinsdale home pest-free with these expert tips. Deep Cleaning Our skilled cleaners go beyond the surface with our sanitizing and deep cleaning services in Hinsdale. We ensure every corner of your house is free from dust, grime, or allergens. Our deep cleaning services focus on less frequently cleaned items like baseboards, floors, bathrooms, and kitchen appliances. One Time Cleaning Sometimes, you need a quick one-time clean-up rather than a subscription. Whether you’re spring cleaning or before a special event, our one-time cleanings are perfect for keeping your place in top shape. Find out how much Hinsdale homeowners tip their cleaning lady on average. Post-Construction Cleaning Our residential cleaning professionals also specialize in post-construction cleaning services. No one wants to deep clean their home after an arduous remodel or renovation. Luckily, we can help make your newly remodeled space shine. Likewise, we partner with the top remodeling firms in Chicagoland to clean the residences they transform on a daily basis. Apartment and Condo Cleaning We believe that living in apartments must be enjoyable and easy. Our team specializes in condo and apartment cleaning. As a result, our top-rated maids and house cleaners pay attention to the most essential details when cleaning a condo or apartment unit. Move-In or Move-Out Cleaning Moving is stressful enough, so let us handle the cleaning for you! Our move-in or move-out cleaning services ensure your old place looks great and your new home is ready. Remember that a spotless cleaning for your new house is critical to selling it for top dollar. Post-Event Cleaning After the party’s over, the real work begins. So, relax and let us take care of the mess. Our post-event cleaning services are perfect for both small gatherings and significant events. About Sophia’s Cleaning Local and family-owned, Sophia’s Cleaning Service is a fully licensed, bonded, and insured cleaning company. Our professional maids have cleaned residential homes and commercial offices in Chicago’s Western suburbs for over 41 years. Cleaning Homes in Hinsdale Since 1984 Established in 1984, Sophia Cleaning Service is known for its friendly house cleaners and quality maid services throughout the Hinsdale area. As a locally-owned second-generation business, we uphold a 100% client satisfaction guarantee. Not to mention, we’re renowned for our commitment to quality and superior customer service. If you ever feel unsatisfied with a thorough cleaning visit, we pledge to do everything in our power to resolve the issue promptly. With this in mind, we strive to provide only the best cleaning solutions near you. With a legacy of over four decades in the cleaning industry, our licensed, insured, and bonded cleaners excel in providing meticulous attention to detail. We don’t just clean your space, we ensure it remains clean and inviting long after your cleaning visit. Your Complete Satisfaction is Guaranteed We at Sophia Cleaning Services pride ourselves on our track record of providing a 100% client satisfaction guarantee. Our expert team uses the highest-quality cleaning supplies and adheres to strict standards to ensure your space is clean and hygienic. If something does not meet your expectations, we will send the team back to your place and fix the issue promptly. Contact us within 24 hours after your cleaning visit, and we will make things right. What Makes Us the Best Cleaning Services Near You? Sophia Cleaning Services is not just another cleaning company in Hinsdale, we are trained professionals who know how to do our jobs efficiently. Moreover, you can trust our cleaners are both professional and people you can trust in your house. Accordingly, we perform extensive interviews and background checks with every cleaner. This ensures you work with the best of the best. Indeed, our staff consists of licensed and insured cleaners, making cleaning efficient and safer than before. Not to mention, we use tailored cleaning processes and strive to exceed your expectations on every visit. Learn how our experts keep towels smelling mildew-free in our newest homeowner advice post. Transparent and Flexible Cleaning Plans Sophia Cleaning Services works selflessly and believes in transparency. We offer flexible cleaning plans with transparent pricing. Call us at (708) 485-8100 and get your affordable cleaning estimate right away. All without any hidden fees, contracts, or surprises. Client Satisfaction The ultimate goal of our professional housekeeping services is to exceed your expectations every time. As a result, we offer a 100% satisfaction guarantee and will do everything possible to fulfill this promise. No question, our expert cleaners and maid services are tailored to fulfill your cleaning needs without breaking the bank. All without sacrificing quality or your peace of mind. Eco-Friendly Cleaning Approach Our cleaning service experts are fully committed to keeping our environment safe and healthy. We use top-class and eco-friendly cleaning products that are harmless to your home and nature. Furthermore, if your trash is non-biodegradable, we will help you recycle or dispose of it safely. How To Hire a Sophia Cleaning Lady or Team We aim to take the stress away from you and take care of it when you hire us. Follow these simple steps to hire the best cleaning services in Hinsdale: 1. Reach Out to Us Simply give us a call at (708) 485-8100 or email the team at Sophia’s Cleaning Service. Likewise, you can quickly complete a form detailing your space and specific cleaning requirements. 2. Get a Same-Day Cleaning Quote Once we know your requirements, we’ll quickly provide you with a custom cleaning price estimate. This quote will detail the recommended cleaning services and their costs so you know exactly what to expect. We may schedule a walkthrough for complex or commercial cleaning needs to give you a more accurate cleaning price estimate. 3. Sit Back and Enjoy a Truly Clean Space Our expert cleaners or maids will come to your home once you’re happy with the quote and all the details are confirmed. All you need to do is relax and watch us turn your house into a consistently clean and sparkling space. Our Custom Home Cleaning Pricing Plans Hiring Sophia’s cleaning experts is like having the perfect housekeeper to maintain your residence. Select from our flexible and transparent cleaning service plans and stay worry-free, knowing that you have a professional house cleaner team to assist you. Can’t find what you are looking for? Our pricing plans can be customized. Contact our expert team and make a completely tailored plan for your cleaning needs. There are no hidden costs. Working with Sophia’s Cleaning is simple and transparent, from start to finish. Sophia’s Cleaning Service Address: 200 East Ave APT 1 La Grange, IL 60525 Phone: Email: Office Hours: Mon-Sun: 7:00am – 8:00pm Visit Us on Google Maps Our Cleaning Service Areas Sophia’s Cleaning is a local and family-owned cleaning company located in La Grange, Illinois. Our professional office and house cleaning teams service all western Chicago suburbs including: Hinsdale, IL Oak Park, IL Burr Ridge, IL La Grange, IL River Forest, IL Westmont, IL Westchester, IL Brookfield, IL Oak Brook, IL Clarendon Hills, IL Downers Grove, IL Riverside, IL Berwyn, IL Western Springs, IL Forest Park, IL Willowbrook, IL Countryside, IL Darien, IL Woodridge, IL and All Nearby Suburbs Melrose Park, IL Cicero, IL Maywood, IL La Grange Highlands, IL Lyons, IL McCook, IL Stickney, IL La Grange Park, IL Broadview, IL Hodgkins, IL Bridgeview, IL Palos Hills, IL Indian Head Park, IL Hillside, IL Summit, IL Willow Springs, IL Oak Brook Terrace, IL Schedule a house cleaning visit today! Book on our website or call(708) 485-8100 Recent Local Cleaning Company Reviews Over the past decades, we’ve earned hundreds of reviews and countless neighbor recommendations from our Hinsdale house cleaning customers. Here are a few local cleaning service reviews near you that stood out recently. Sophia’s Cleaning Service is rated 4.9 / 5.0 out of 348 reviews on Google Maps Gaby’s team did a great job at my house. I have been recovering from surgery, and my house needed a good cleaning. It was the first time I used them, and they made my house feel like a home again. Thank you! Jennifer Wingelnik 03/27/24, Google The two ladies that came to my house were extremely nice, very polite, and did a wonderful job! We were originally planning to only have the one-time deep cleaning done. However afterwards, I inquired about an ongoing cleaning and just scheduled that to begin. Steve Pinta Hinsdale, IL 10/14/21, Google I’ve tried a few other cleaners and always come back to Sophia’s based on the quality of their work. Usually a team of people come so the price is more justified and I know that I won’t have to go back over any spots. Customer service is also quick to get in touch if there’s any scheduling hiccups or questions. Rachel Golman Hinsdale, IL 03/21/23, Google Professional Cleaning FAQs Can I request the same cleaner each time? Yes! If you are happy with a specific cleaner or team, we will do our best to accommodate your request. Our goal is to build trust and familiarity with our service. From countertops to bedroom floors, we clean your house the way you want it cleaned, using the same cleaners each time. Get professional tips for spotless vinyl floors in our guide featuring vacuum cleaners best suited to vinyl. What should I do before the cleaning team arrives? Before a professional cleaning visit, you can take several steps to prepare your home so the cleaners can be most efficient with their time. This ensures you get the best value when hiring a local cleaning or maid service. First, declutter your home to give cleaners clear access to surfaces and floors. Next, secure valuables and fragile items to prevent mishaps. Likewise, please make arrangements for pets to ensure they’re out of the way. When the cleaners arrive, point out specific areas that need extra attention and provide instructions for any appliances that require handling. Ensure there’s room for the cleaners to use their equipment. Finally, mention your preferences for cleaning supplies, especially if you have allergies or prefer eco-friendly products. Ultimately, these steps can help maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of the cleaning service. What services don’t you provide? We do not perform carpet cleaning or furniture upholstery refinishing services. In addition, Sophia’s Cleaning does not specialize in junk removal, heavy construction debris cleaning, high-surface cleaning, or delicate item cleaning like lightbulbs or chandeliers. Our professional house cleaning experts also do not wash walls or dishes. What other neighborhoods do you service near me? While Hinsdale is one of our most popular cleaning service areas, we also cover all surrounding Chicago’s Western suburbs. This includes Western Springs, La Grange, Lisle, Westchester, Brookfield, Darien, Willowbrook, Oak Park, Elmhurst, and Downers Grove, IL. We also service homes located in the 60521 and 60522 zip codes locally. How do you determine your cleaning rates? All our cleaning pricing plans are flexible and transparent. Select the plan best suits your needs and hire your desired commercial or residential cleaning service. Our plans are genuinely flexible. It means that you can customize the cleaning plan based on the property size, the type of cleaning services, and other requirements. We offer the area’s most affordable cleaning services and provide a detailed quote before starting any job. All without sacrificing quality or reliability. Call today for a free quote in minutes: (708) 485-8100. Are your cleaners fully insured and bonded? Yes! All of our cleaners are insured and bonded. We are a family-owned local cleaning business with trustworthy and reliable staff to ensure the safety and security of your property. Our cleaning teams receive regular training to ensure we deliver only the best office and home cleaning services.
