The Top-Selling Master-Planned Communities of 2025: Mid-Year Update July 24, 2025 In Summary New home sales among the 50 Top-Selling Master-Planned Communities were down 6.6% at the end of June compared to the pace set by top communities in the first half of 2024. Economic uncertainty, weak consumer sentiment, and continued affordability challenges are contributing to a cooling new home market. The broader new home market experienced a similar decline, with sales of new single-family houses in the United States at a seasonally-adjusted annual rate of 627,000 in June, representing a 6.6% decline from June 2024. Existing home sales have similarly fallen more than expected in June, to a seasonally-adjusted annual rate of 3.93 million units, which is the lowest level since September 2024. The Villages active adult community is once again estimated to remain the top-selling community in the nation as it continues to attract retiree buyers to Central Florida. Sarasota, Florida’s Lakewood Ranch claims the number two spot overall, and the title of top-selling multigenerational community with 1,185 sales. Cadence in Henderson, Nevada earns the third-place rank with 722 sales through the mid-year. While both communities are seeing a slight decline in sales compared to the first half of 2024, each continue to outperform the broader new home market. The Houston MSA is once again the top-performing metropolitan area with 11 communities in the Top 50, representing 3,666 sales, or 22% of all sales among ranked MPCs. The state of Florida represents 41% of sales among ranked communities, followed by Texas at 34%. Every year since 1994, RCLCO has conducted a national survey identifying top-selling master-planned communities (MPCs) through a rigorous search for high-performing communities in each state. This initiative, now in its 32nd consecutive year, exists not only to recognize the most successful communities in the country, but also as a tool for monitoring the overall health of the for-sale housing industry, and a means of highlighting the trends affecting communities large and small. This process also serves as a mechanism through which to learn development best practices and pass along lessons gleaned from the MPCs that have pioneered their way into the top ranks. That information contributes to the knowledge base utilized in RCLCO’s MPC consulting practice. Each year we report the annual sales among the Top-50 communities at the end of the year, as well as publish this mid-year update in July. For this 2025 Mid-Year report, we have surveyed MPCs throughout the country to establish the current rankings following our The Top-Selling Master-Planned Communities of 2024 published in January 2025. The chart above highlights RCLCO’s list of the 50 top-selling master-planned communities through the first half of 2025, along with a comparison to their performance in the first half of 2024 where data is available. Overall, sales among the Top 50 were down about 6.6% year-over-year, mirroring the broader new home market, which posted a similar decline in June. Despite headwinds including elevated mortgage rates, affordability challenges, and broader economic uncertainty, many of the top-ranked communities continue to outperform the national average. Among communities with comparable data from last year, the “same store” average decline was a more modest 4%. The Villages in Central Florida is once again estimated to be the top-selling community in the country and is known as the largest active adult community in the United States. Sarasota, Florida’s Lakewood Ranch claims the 2nd place spot in this mid-year update, and the title of top-selling multigenerational community, with 1,185 sales through the first half of the year. Cadence , a LandWell Company community in Henderson, Nevada, earned the third-place rank with 722 sales, a similar pace to its 2024 performance. The Houston MSA was once again the stand-out metropolitan area with 11 communities ranked within the Top 50, including 4th ranked Sunterra by Land Tejas and Starwood Land. The Houston Metro Area contributed to 3,666 sales among the Top 50 MPCs in the first half of the year, representing 22% of all sales among ranked communities. Top-Selling Master-Planned Communities of 2025: Mid-Year Update In our 2024 edition of RCLCO’s Top-Selling Master-Planned Communities Report, we reported that sales among top-selling communities had remained largely similar to the pace set by top MPCs in 2023, a sign of resiliency despite headwinds associated with election uncertainty, hurricane and severe weather impacts, and continued affordability concerns due in part to elevated mortgage rates. An uptick in both builder optimism and permitting activity following the conclusion of both the 2024 presidential election and an active hurricane season appeared to suggest positive momentum for the housing market entering the new year. That momentum was quickly disrupted as growing uncertainty surrounding the performance of the broader economy, particularly related to tariffs and the potential impact of international trade wars, sank consumer sentiment and produced caution among potential home buyers. This combined with affordability challenges as mortgage rates remained above 6.7% at the end of Q2 and median new home prices remained above $400,000, has resulted in a cooling new home market with sales down 6.6% year-over-year in June. Homebuilder sentiment, as measured by the National Association of Homebuilders (NAHB) Housing Market Index, remains at some of the lowest levels seen in the last two years, leveling off to a score of 36 in July after nearly 6 months of mostly declining sentiment. According to the index, a score lower than 50 is an indication that a majority of builders lack confidence about the current and near-term outlook for housing. Buyer traffic has suffered most significantly in the first half of 2025, as economic uncertainty and weak consumer sentiment sidelined many shoppers. Home sales across the 50 top-selling master-planned communities in the first half of 2025 declined by approximately 6.6% compared to the same period in 2024, mirroring broader trends in the new home market. However, the “same-store” sales performance – tracking only communities with comparable data from last year – showed a more modest average decline of 4%. This phenomenon highlights the trend first identified by RCLCO in the years following the Great Financial Crisis, where consumers noticeably sought safety in master-planned community environments, trusting their investment would be protected against broader market fluctuations, with the place-making and lifestyle offering of community developers providing a hedge against economic headwinds. Shown below with full-year data through the end of 2024 is the new home market compared against the sampled top 10 MPCs in each year, highlighting their ability to outperform in times of economic distress or uncertainty. The U.S. housing market in 2025 has not lived up to expectations, and recent headlines have centered around consumer caution, with re-surfaced inflation fears and mortgage rates remaining at elevated levels. Short-term uncertainty – fueled by elevated interest rates, inconsistent economic messaging, and global instability – has undoubtedly spooked both buyers and sellers. The market for both new and existing homes has cooled nationally, with a disappointing spring selling season. Builder incentives remain a critical component in keeping the new home market competitive as resale inventory continues to grow, and homebuilders are feeling the squeeze on margins. However, the broader story of the U.S. housing market is one that must be told through long-term trends. Beneath the turbulence, fundamentals remain intact. Demand from Millennials and Gen Z is only beginning to peak, while Baby Boomers continue to drive activity in second-home and active adult segments. And the structural undersupply of housing, which has been years in the making, has not been resolved. What’s more, job growth has remained resilient, even in the face of economic headwinds, suggesting that many households still have the financial capacity to enter the housing market. What’s holding them back, more than anything, is affordability, and a meaningful drop in interest rates could serve as a powerful unlock for pent-up demand. For now, many master-planned communities continue to outperform, offering stability, amenities, and a sense of place that resonates with today’s buyers. Their ability to weather market swings is a testament to the strength of thoughtful community design and long-term planning. If inflation remains in check – and potential tariff action doesn’t throw a wrench into that outlook – the Fed could continue easing rates, setting the stage for a healthier housing market in 2026. Until then, we may be in for a bumpy ride. But the road ahead still points in the right direction. RCLCO has produced the Top-Selling Master-Planned Community Report since 1994, making it the longest-running publication on master-planned community performance in the industry. The ranking of communities is based on total new home contracts, net of cancellations, as reported by each individual community. To be included in RCLCO’s ranking, MPCs must have several key features. True MPCs are developed from a comprehensive plan by a master developer, and incorporate a variety of housing types, sizes, and prices, with shared common space, amenities, and a vital public realm. The best examples of MPCs are developed with a strong vision and comprehensive plan that guide development and unify the community through distinctive signage, wayfinding, entry features, landscaping, and architectural/design standards. MPCs differentiate themselves from typical suburban subdivisions in terms of scale, as well as in how they provide a means for interaction among neighbors in the sense of the word “community.” They foster an environment within which generations can live better in terms of housing and the community environment, and many MPCs also offer educational opportunities, neighborhood shopping and services, and even employment centers to complement the residential neighborhoods. Although rooted in a vision, the most resilient MPCs have flexible master plans that are environmentally sensitive, market responsive, and nurture the lifestyles of their residents. Given the above criteria, we do not include the collective sales of multiple, separate communities that are unified only through marketing efforts rather than a preconceived community vision, nor do we include communities that are a collection of subdivisions that have few unifying elements other than name. More on the Top-Selling Master-Planned Communities Article and research prepared by Karl Pischke, Principal, and Gregg Logan, Managing Director. Additional research support was provided by Kimberly Asbell, Christopher Bitter, Shanren Brienen, Emma Carpet, Maggie Henderson, Anthony Innocente, and Alex Valdes. Disclaimer: Reasonable efforts have been made to ensure that the data contained in this Advisory reflect accurate and timely information, and the data is believed to be reliable and comprehensive. The Advisory is based on estimates, assumptions, and other information developed by RCLCO from its independent research effort and general knowledge of the industry. This Advisory contains opinions that represent our view of reasonable expectations at this particular time, but our opinions are not offered as predictions or assurances that particular events will occur.
