Grammarly is now part of Superhuman, the AI productivity platform on a mission to unlock the superhuman potential in everyone. The Superhuman suite of apps and agents brings AI wherever people work, integrating with over 1 million applications and websites. The company’s products include Grammarly’s writing assistance, Coda’s collaborative workspaces, Mail’s inbox management, and Go, the proactive AI assistant that... The market for cutting-edge ML compute is broken. Startups, researchers and even big AI labs are scrambling to buy or rent access to the latest chips for ML training. But demand far outstrips supply, and what’s available is only accessible to the well-resourced, placing an artificial damper on innovation. To solve this challenge, we've launched Voltage Park, and we’re on a... MORSE is a specially selected team of scientists, engineers, and software developers who use asymmetric and unconventional approaches to deploy practical solutions that solve difficult multi-disciplinary problems faced by the US National Security Ecosystem. Our purpose ensures that patients remain at the center of all we do. We live our purpose by sourcing the best science in the world; partnering with others in the healthcare system to improve access to our medicines; using digital technologies to enhance our drug discovery and development, as well as patient outcomes; and leading the conversation to advocate for... CoreWeave, the AI Hyperscaler™, delivers a cloud platform of cutting-edge software powering the next wave of AI. The company's technology provides enterprises and leading AI labs with cloud solutions for accelerated computing. Since 2017, CoreWeave has operated a growing footprint of data centers across the US and Europe. CoreWeave was ranked as one of the TIME100 most influential companies and... Metropolis Technologies, Inc. is an artificial intelligence company whose computer vision platform enables checkout-free payment experiences for the real world. Its proprietary AI-driven technology reaches more than 50 million customers while reducing costs, increasing transparency and capturing additional revenue for real estate partners. Following its take-private acquisition of SP+, Metropolis is now the largest parking network in North America with... Snap Inc. is a technology company. We believe the camera presents the greatest opportunity to improve the way people live and communicate. We contribute to human progress by empowering people to express themselves, live in the moment, learn about the world, and have fun together. Carbon Robotics builds the industry-leading AI-powered LaserWeeder™ which combines computer vision, AI deep learning technology, robotics, and lasers to identify crops versus weeds - and shoots the weeds with lasers. More than 100 of the world’s largest specialty crop growers have deployed LaserWeeders™ in North America, Europe, and Australia. This no-touch, precision technology is effective day and night in over 100... Outreach is the number one sales engagement platform. Using advanced machine learning and AI to automate and prioritize customer touchpoints, Outreach dramatically increases sales reps' effectiveness and ability to drive smarter, more insightful engagement with their customers. We're on a mission to make every customer-facing rep wildly productive. CoreStack, an AI-powered multi-cloud governance solution, empowers enterprises to unleash the power of cloud on their terms by helping them rapidly achieve continuous and autonomous cloud governance at scale. CoreStack enables enterprises to realize outcomes across FinOps, SecOps and CloudOps such as 40% decrease in cloud costs and 50% increase in operational efficiencies by governing operations, security, cost, access, and... Duolingo is a language-learning education platform that offers 98 total courses across nearly 40 distinct languages. Duolingo is the world’s most popular way to learn a language. Our mission is to develop the best education in the world and make it universally available. Some of our products include: 1. Duolingo: The free, fun, and effective way to learn a language! 2. DET (Duolingo... Range is the fast, flexible, holistic wealth management platform reinventing the industry. We give people an all-in-one place to manage all aspects of their financial outlook. From buying a house to retiring early or taking care of family — members can get answers to their questions anytime and feel confident that their money is working for them. Range’s team includes... Clobotics is a global leader in intelligent computer vision solutions for the retail and wind. Clobotics’ end-to-end solutions combine computer vision, artificial intelligence/machine learning, and data analytics software with different hardware form factors, including autonomous drones, mobile applications and other IoT devices to help companies automate time-intensive operational processes, increase efficiencies and boost the bottom line through the use of... Plainsight provides the unique combination of AI strategy, a visual data science toolset and deep learning expertise to develop, implement, and oversee transformative computer vision solutions for enterprises. Plainsight streamlines and optimizes the full computer vision lifecycle. From project strategy, through model deployment, and ongoing monitoring, Plainsight helps customers successfully operationalize vision AI applications to solve highly diverse business challenges. Solving... Machine learning platform to increase recovery in the Accounts Receivable & Revenue Cycle Management industry. Snowflake powers the end-to-end data lifecycle – from ingesting and processing data to analyzing and modeling it, to building and sharing data and AI applications – helping engineers, analysts, and leaders innovate faster and achieve more with their data. We're on a mission to empower every enterprise to achieve its full potential through data and AI. Moloco is a machine learning company empowering organizations of all sizes to grow and unlock the full value of their unique first-party data, elevating the traditional path to performance advertising. While the largest technology companies have proven the speed and scale of ad-targeting utilizing data— the same robust performance powered by machine learning has previously been unavailable beyond their platforms.... AI Dynamics Inc., formerly DimensionalMechanics Inc., is a global organization founded on the belief that everyone should have access to the power of artificial intelligence (AI) to change the world. The company's NeoPulse® Framework is a robust end to end AI platform for experts and non-experts alike, transforming how organizations innovate and grow, at a fraction of the cost, expertise,... Protect AI is a cybersecurity company focused on AI & ML systems. Through the delivery of innovative security products and thought leadership in MLSecOps, we help our customers build a safer AI powered world. Protect AI is based in Seattle, Washington, with offices in Dallas, Texas, and Raleigh, North Carolina. The company is directed by proven leaders in AI and... Curative AI, Inc. is an ambitious innovative early-stage startup revolutionizing the healthcare industry through cutting-edge AI-powered SaaS solutions. We are currently delivering exceptional value to our customers in Revenue Cycle Management (RCM) and Clinical Operations, empowering them with industry-transforming AI technology, intelligent automation, and deep data insights. By focusing on rapid product development and having secured early strategic customers, we... Work Your Passion. Live Your Purpose.
