15 Best Online Tutoring Platforms reviewed by Jo-ann Caballes Updated on November 18, 2025 Good online tutoring platforms offer 1:1 lessons with qualified teachers. But the best tutoring platforms go above and beyond. They provide learners with detailed feedback, flexible lesson scheduling, and a high-quality online teaching experience. Here are the top online tutoring sites for math, language learning, STEM, and other subjects, so you can choose the best platform for yourself or your child. Key points The most popular tutoring websites include Brighterly, Preply, Wyzant, Varsity Tutors, and Tutor.com. Based on online tutoring platforms reviews, each platform has its unique set of strengths and weaknesses. Thus, it’s important to consider your learning needs before making the choice Brighterly is a K-12 school-supplemental program offering online tutoring for an affordable price. Exploring alternatives? What are the best online tutoring platforms for kids? Brighterly Preply Wyzant Pear Deck Tutor Wiingy Skooli Princeton Review Tutor.com StudyGate Varsity Tutors Growingstars Mathnasium Studypool Khan Academy Gideon Brighterly online tutoring platform: Best for personalized math and reading lessons Brighterly math and reading platform is a school-supplemental platform offering online tutoring for 1st – 9th graders. It makes math and reading fun. Brighterly teachers introduce online games and drill-based worksheets so children can focus and learn better. Brighterly features Top-notch math and reading tutors: Brighterly hand-picks all the online tutors for kids which makes it one of the best online tutoring platforms 2025. You can be sure they can teach math and reading, work with younger students, and use digital tools for distance education. Personalized programs: Brighterly reading and math program is based on the award-winning curriculum that is aligned with US state standards. As you move forward with the lessons, your child enjoys fun reading or math activities, and you enjoy seeing their grades go up! Free worksheets and tests : In addition to paid tutoring sessions, Brighterly has an open-access library with plenty of free materials for independent home practice, including: Brighterly pricing Being of the best online tutoring platforms for kids, Brighterly cost goes in several pricing packages, with each considered for 3 classes/week: Learning Membership 1-month plan: From $20.7 per lesson. Learning Membership 3-month plan: From $20.2 per lesson. Learning Membership 6-month plan: From $19.4 per lesson. Learning Membership 12-month plan: From $17.3 per lesson. To check out how online tutoring for kids works on Brighterly before diving into their math or reading program, try a free demo lesson! You’ll see their tutors in action, and it won’t cost you a thing! Pros Special focus on math or reading to let your kid meet expert tutors instead of generalists Individual learning plans based on the school objectives and unique learning styles Transparent prices with different reading and math packages compared to other good tutoring websites Live support, class notes, and learning progress reports are included in all packages Cons Only for Grade 1 to 9 students Need to search for other tutoring platforms for other subjects Preply online tutoring platform: Best for languages Preply started as a 1:1 language learning platform in 2013. Fast forward to today, it has over 35,000 tutors and more than 50 languages who also provide corporate language training and math tutoring. Being known as one of the best online tutoring websites for languages, it offers tutors around the world with immense flexibility to book lessons at times that suit you. Once you’ve found a tutor that fits your schedule and budget, you can watch their introduction videos and book a 1-on-1 online lesson. Preply pricing Tutors set their own hourly rates themselves. Pros Over 50 languages are available on the platform, including less common ones Based on Preply reviews, it offers customized online lessons to fit learners’ goals and needs Transparent prices as you see how much tutors charge in advance Cons No free trial Wyzant online tutoring platform: Best for versatility Wyzant’s tutors offer tutoring services, teaching math, science, English, creative writing, and 300 other subjects. To narrow your online tutoring options down, use the filters related to budget and availability. Once you’ve found some good fits, visit their tutor page to learn more about their qualifications, hourly rates, educational background, and reviews. Wyzant pricing Tutors set their hourly rates. There’s no free trial but if the tutor is not a good fit, Wyzant won’t charge you for the lesson. Instead, it will give you a free lesson until you find the right tutor. If you prefer in-person lessons instead of online ones, you can look for a Wyzant tutor in your area. Pros: Online or face-to-face classes for a wide range of subjects for children and adults Transparent prices as you see how much a tutor charges on their profile Detailed tutor profiles for you to choose the right tutor Cons: No free demo lesson Based on Wyzant reviews, it may be time-consuming to find the right tutor at an affordable price Pear Deck Tutor: Best for school integration Formerly known as TutorMe, Pear Deck Tutor provides additional support for school subjects like English, math, and languages. Being among the top tutoring sites, it connects tutors during 1:1 lessons with students in need, so a teacher can conduct more efficient classes at school and address the needs of everyone. Teachers and administrators can integrate Pear Deck’s other products into this platform to monitor the students’ progress. For example, Pear Assessment generates real-time reports on attendance, academic performance, and grades, so it’s easy to track how much students have improved. That’s what makes Pear Deck one of the top tutoring websites. Pear Deck Tutor pricing Each school, district, and college gets a custom quote from Pear Deck depending on their needs. Pros Teachers can direct students to specific tutors for personalized additional practice Covers school subjects for K-12 and higher education students Easy to integrate with Pear Deck’s other products to create learning reports, making the platform one of online tutoring platforms that offer personalized learning experiences Cons Not possible to find out about pricing before filling in the contact form on the tutoring website Not clear if it’s suitable for homeschooled students and for students following a non-traditional education Wiingy: Best for STEM and computer science Wiingy has tutoring sessions, homework help, and exam prep services. Although it covers a wide range of topics, it shines in STEM and computer science topics, as per its Trustpilot reviews. A “Perfect Match Guarantee” from Wiingy is the feature that shows that the platform is dedicated to offering the best tutoring services with the right tutor for your trial lesson. In case you’re not happy with the tutor, you will get a free replacement. Once you’ve found a tutor you like, you can buy as many lessons as you need, and pay per lesson. Wiingy pricing Tutoring sessions start at $28 per hour and go up depending on the subject, complexity of the topic, and the tutor’s experience. Pros Covers both simple topics like elementary math, and more complex subjects like programming languages and coding Free trial lesson and Perfect Match Guarantee to help you find the right tutor Lessons are available for students in all countries Cons Unclear if the platform provides recordings, progress reports, and high-quality customer support Skooli online tutoring platform: Best for last-minute help Skooli offers online tutoring services for elementary, middle, high school, and college students. One of the stand-out features that make this platform one of the best tutoring websites is its last-minute study help. This is particularly useful for students who have a big exam coming up, so they can quickly find a tutor to answer their questions. Skooli pricing Starter Plan including 1 hour of tutoring: $49.20 Genius Plan including 8 hours of tutoring: $352 Mastermind Plan including 16 hours of tutoring: $672 Einstein Plan including 32 hours of tutoring: $1,248 Skooli calculates the prices based on the number of hours you want to invest in tutoring. Before you sign up, you can join a demo to experience what the Skooli classroom looks like. During the demo, you’ll be able to test your camera and microphone, use Skooli’s online whiteboard, and send messages on the chat. All tutors on Skooli are certified teachers with classroom experience, covering both simple and complex topics. Pros Free demo to test out the digital classroom Lessons for K-12 and college students Flexibility with last-minute study help, ideal for students preparing for an exam or who need help with homework Cons The hourly rates are higher than most of its competitors, even with the Einstein Plan Princeton Review: Best for advanced exam prep Princeton Review is one of the best online tutoring platforms for test prep, including SAT exams, graduate MCAT and LSAT courses, and college admissions. The lessons aren’t as customizable and flexible as other tutoring platforms, but Princeton Review does have a long history of helping students excel in exams and get into their dream colleges. Princeton Review pricing Prices depend on the program and the number of tutoring hours involved. For example, one of Princeton Review’s most popular programs, Live Online Academic Tutoring, starts at $2,160 for 24 hours of tutoring. This works out to $90 per hour, including tutoring sessions, assessments, and homework. Most courses are sold in packages, with set hours of live online or in-person teaching. Students need to attend every session and complete assessments to see improvement in their grades. Pros Specializing in test prep tutoring for SAT, ACT, GRE, GMAT, LSAT, and MCAT, thus being online tutoring platform available to assist you in reaching your academic goals Expert tutors providing high-quality teaching, homework, and assessment On-demand tutoring to answer any exam-related questions Cons More expensive compared to other online tutoring companies Tutor.com: Best for employee benefits Tutor.com has a broad student profile — it provides courses for K-12 and college students, corporate employees, and the US military. School students can choose group or private lessons through an online classroom, focused on improving their grades and knowledge. They also have the option of taking “high-dosage tutoring” which consists of classes three times a week for faster results. Tutor.com is known as the platform offering the best online tutoring services. Companies, nonprofits, and governments can partner with it to offer classes as an employee benefit. According to a 2022 survey by the company, 98% of people were happy to receive tutoring sessions as a benefit from their company. Potential benefits of offering it include better job satisfaction, productivity, and engagement. Tutor.com pricing Tutor.com has both subscription packages and one-time payment options, ranging from $39.99 to $339.99 per month for a 10-hour subscription. For employee benefits, companies need to get a specific quote from Tutor.com based on the US state they’re in and the number of employees they have. Pros Expert tutors covering over 250 subjects All course packages include flexible courses and easy scheduling Special tutoring programs for students, corporate employees, and US military Cons No free trial Not all tutors are available for on-demand tutoring StudyGate: Best for homework help Being one of the best tutoring sites for homework help, StudyGate subjects include topics like math, science, humanities, business, and programming. For 1:1 feedback, StudyGate also offers tutoring sessions for high school students. StudyGate pricing Tutoring sessions on this one of the top online tutoring platforms depend on the subject but average at around $15 per hour. Pros Useful for on-demand homework help so students can get answers whenever they need Students can see a tutor’s reviews and on-time delivery rate before accepting an answer or committing to tutoring Covers different topics in math, science, humanities, and computer science Cons Not suitable for younger learners as it only focuses on high school and college-level topics Varsity Tutors: Best for access for the whole family Varsity Tutors offers four main online tutoring programs online: academic, enrichment, languages, and test prep. In all membership plans, you get 1:1 online tutoring services that the whole family can benefit from. To find the right membership plan, Varsity Tutors starts with a short questionnaire about who the learner is, what their learning goals are, and when they need the tutoring sessions. Depending on the answers, the platform matches learners with a monthly subscription plan. Learners can find a variety of topics, including math, science, business, AP, and exam prep. Varsity Tutors pricing The prices depend on the membership plan of your choice. Unfortunately, the company doesn’t list its prices or starting rates on its website, but it is known to be more expensive compared to the Varsity Tutors alternatives. Pros Flexible classes with online tutors for kids and adults Personalized lessons depending on learners’ needs and goals Video chat, collaborative workspaces, and recordings available for all tutoring sessions Cons Expensive compared to other online tutoring platforms In the Varsity Tutors review, there have been some complaints about high prices, teaching quality, and refunds Growingstars online tutoring platform: College-level support Growingstars offers online teaching services at the school and college levels, specializing in tutoring for complex exams like SAT, MCAT, and ACT. To assist students better and make the lessons more engaging, the platform adopts interactive whiteboards and other interactive elements. Growingstars pricing Tutoring plans depend on the subject. For example, math plans range between $16-$20 per hour. Pros Deep dive approach to learning subjects, with numerous nuances and subtopics Test preparation services Dedicated education manager who supports learners Cons No in-person tutoring available Mathnasium online tutoring: Dedicated math tutoring service Mathnasium unites over 1,000 offline centers all over the world, This service provides customized learning plans and knowledge assessments, focusing on what kids already know about math and deepening their knowledge with its proprietary teaching method. Mathnasium pricing Tutors set their hourly rates, which usually range between $20-$150 per hour. Pros Offline tutoring, which is usually more engaging and facilitates dedicated practice The deep-dive method that goes beyond plain memorization Focus on math that lets kids get high-quality math education Cons You need to contact the center before getting the exact quote Studypool online tutoring: Quick online answers from tutors On Studypool, kids can access the knowledge base to get answers to their questions or connect with tutors online and offline. Their Notebank feature works like an advanced search bar, providing students with all the relevant resources to their problem. Studypool pricing Tutors set the prices for their answers individually. Still, students have an option to select the desired price range. Pros Different tutoring formats: quick answer, offline meeting, or online social tutoring Ability to choose the price range to get answers for more affordable prices Big library of resources Cons Per-answer payment model can increase the final price unexpectedly Khan Academy online tutoring platform: Top free service Khan Academy is not a classic tutoring platform. Still, it’s a great resource for free materials on numerous subjects, ranging from math to ancient art. Khan Academy pricing Free Pros Free education open to all Engaging material formats that include video tutorials, chunk-based texts, and quizzes Easy to track progress with points Cons One-size-fits-all education that doesn’t suit the needs of struggling students or students with special needs No live tutoring option Gideon online tutoring: Offline learning centers for math and reading Gideon is an offline learning center network that teaches math and reading via a special curriculum that boosts both fundamental skills and mastery in these subjects. The math and reading programs are available for children aged 4-12 years. Gideon pricing The monthly tuition changes from center to center, yet is usually around $170-$230. Pros Ability to steadily build on mastery in reading and math from age 4 Offline education that encourages socializing Small-group and 1:1 sessions Cons The exact tutoring price varies from location Online tutoring platforms Reddit & Trustpilot Check out the detailed summaries of all the reviews of the tutoring online platforms mentioned above in the table below. Platform Trustpilot rating Reddit & Trustpilot feedback summary Brighterly ⭐4.4/5 Parents appreciate individual tutors and learning results Preply ⭐4.3/5 One of the best language learning apps Wyzant ⭐1.9/5 A vast tutoring selection of good quality Pear Deck Tutor ⭐3.2/5 Helpful tutors for struggling students Wiingy ⭐4.3/5 Professional and understanding guides Skooli ⭐3.1/5 Qualified tutors and flexible schedules Princeton Review ⭐4.2/5 Helpful in-class experience and great learning results Tutor.com ⭐1.9/5 The platform effectively connects students and tutors, though the further experiences can be mixed StudyGate ⭐3.3/5 Decent help on the assignments Varsity Tutors ⭐4.3/5 Flexible schedules and improvements in academic performance GrowingStars ⭐4.9/5 Great experience and highly pleasant results Mathnasium ⭐3.8/5 Fun and interactive learning center experience Studypool ⭐2.7/5 Nice service and quality answers Khan Academy ⭐3.4/5 User-friendly and helpful free materials Gideon ⭐N/A Great improvements in SATs Conclusion To choose your option among the best online tutoring sites listed here, keep several factors in mind: Your learning needs and style (to define your request) Required tutor’s expertise (to understand which tutoring platform suits it best) Need for undivided attention (to choose the proper learning format). When shortlisting platforms, make sure to read the reviews, check how the tutors are vetted, and how much the investment would be. As your first choice, you can go for Brighterly. They are committed to offering great value for money, with classes ranging from $17.3 to $20.7 per lesson, with a free demo available to everyone. Book free lesson today and see for yourself!
