InterSystems has been the information engine behind the world's most important applications in healthcare, business and government for over 40 years. Our software products provide advanced data management, integration, and analytics technologies used daily by millions of people in 80+ countries. Built on a state-of-the-art data engine, Perchwell empowers real estate professionals to do their best work, provide differentiated service to their clients, and close more deals. Backed by Lux Capital, Founders Fund and some of the country’s leading MLSs, Perchwell is scaling its best-in-class solution to become the nation’s most powerful real estate platform for agents, brokerages and MLSs. Mission: At Perchwell,... Enverus’ innovative technologies drive production and investment strategies, enable best practices for energy and commodity trading and risk management, and reduce costs through automated processes across critical business functions. Enverus is a strategic partner to more than 6,000 customers in 50 countries. Enverus is a portfolio company of Hellman & Friedman and Genstar Capital. https://www.youtube.com/@northslope-technologies At Northslope, we believe that purpose-built AI products in the hands of business operators create far more value than slide decks or off-the-shelf software. That’s why we partner with ambitious organizations to transform entire industries through Palantir’s Foundry and AIP platforms—delivering powerful, measurable outcomes in weeks, not years. We operate more like a product startup than a traditional services firm. Our... Sage is an innovative, one-of-a-kind operations management system that transforms how senior living communities deliver care. Unlike traditional nurse call systems, Sage offers a comprehensive platform that provides real-time insights into care delivery and operational efficiency. Our technology empowers caregivers with the tools and data they need to provide personalized care while boosting productivity. By leveraging real-time staffing data and... We bring together one of the world’s largest libraries of multimodal clinical and molecular data with a robust suite of AI tools to help physicians personalize care in real time, connect patients with therapies and clinical trials, and enable partners to accelerate discovery and development of new treatments. With ~8 million de-identified research records and 350+ petabytes of data, Tempus partners... Celonis makes processes work for people, companies and the planet. The Celonis Process Intelligence Platform uses industry-leading process mining and AI technology and augments it with business context to give customers a living digital twin of their business operation. It’s system-agnostic and without bias, and provides everyone with a common language for understanding and improving businesses. Celonis enables its customers... Zeta Global (NYSE: ZETA) is the AI Marketing Cloud that leverages advanced artificial intelligence (AI) and trillions of consumer signals to make it easier for marketers to acquire, grow, and retain customers more efficiently. Through the Zeta Marketing Platform (ZMP), our vision is to make sophisticated marketing simple by unifying identity, intelligence, and omnichannel activation into a single platform –... ZS is a management consulting and technology firm that partners with companies to improve life and how we live it. We transform ideas into impact by bringing together data, science, technology and human ingenuity to deliver better outcomes for all. Founded in 1983, ZS has more than 13,000 employees in over 35 offices worldwide. At PatientPoint, we're transforming every doctor-patient interaction with cutting-edge, technology-driven solutions designed to improve health outcomes and quality of life. By delivering impactful, digital, in-office patient education at no cost to physicians across the country, we empower healthcare professionals to connect more meaningfully with their patients. Through partnerships with trusted healthcare brands like Pfizer, P&G, Sanofi, Merck, NatureMade, and Bristol... DISQO’s mission is to build the world’s most trusted ad measurement platform that fuels brand growth. The world’s largest brands, agencies, and media companies trust DISQO for expert insight and AI-driven intelligence about their advertising performance across all platforms. We capture people’s sentiments and journeys, connecting them with the brands they value and the media they consume. With this identity-based... Enova International (NYSE: ENVA) is a leading online financial services company that serves small businesses and consumers who are underserved by traditional banks. For over 20 years, Enova has provided over $65 billion in loans and financing to more than 13 million customers by offering a suite of market-leading products powered by the company's world-class analytics, machine learning algorithms and... Collectors has multiple business lines that grade, authenticate, and sell millions of high-value, record-setting collectibles. We're the leader in third-party authentication and grading services for high-value collectibles including trading cards (Professional Sports Authenticator and Card Ladder), coins (Professional Coin Grading Services), video games (Wata), event tickets, autographs, and memorabilia, and with your help we can continue to grow rapidly. Our... Hex is changing the way people work with data. Our platform makes analytics workflows more powerful, collaborative, and shareable. Hex solves key pain points with today's data and analytics tooling, and is loved by thousands of users all over the world for the beautiful UI, new superpowers, and boundless flexibility. We are a tight-knit crew of engineers, designers, and data aficionados.... Particle’s Platform is focused on helping healthcare innovators find and use medical information to better their patient lives. Our energy is spent connecting to people’s diverse set of medical data, making that data useful in different settings, and designing an incredibly easy way to share that information with any organization a person chooses. Our platform powers smarter workflows, better care,... At January, we bring humanity to consumer finance. Using data intelligence, we create trust and deliver better outcomes for consumers and creditors alike. Our mission is simple: expand access to credit while empowering consumers to achieve lasting stability and control of their financial lives. We began by building the foundation for creditors to engage with and support their borrowers at scale... Pulse Analytics builds business intelligence tools that help decision-makers in oncology and other specialty therapeutic areas reduce access barriers and restrictions in the healthcare industry. Pharma market access teams utilize our tools to understand the complex connections, policies, and key influencers at healthcare organizations to deliver targeted insights and support their customer engagement strategies. We go above traditional data platforms... Metlang is an established, veteran-owned provider of translation, interpretation and analytical services to government agencies and corporations nationwide. Established in 1990, we are the largest provider of monitoring, interpretation and analytical services to the law enforcement community. We have seven locations nationwide, each offering the following services: We are a world leader in the provision of high-quality assessments and data analytics for schools and school groups. Our mission is to help every child realise their full potential by providing teachers with a ‘whole student’ approach to assessment. Our assessments provide an accurate measure of students’ abilities and their attainment and progress, as well as identifying any barriers... Work Your Passion. Live Your Purpose.
