We believe that simplifying measurement complexities is what leads to digital marketing effectiveness. From first touch to last click, our goal is to decode customer acquisition for improved business performance. Business Intelligence and Marketing Performance Insights We are data scientists helping brands merge performance analytics with marketing data to capture true marketing ROI, drive profitability, and better compete in challenging markets. Part of our approach is a deep dive into search behavior, digital campaign performance, and website data for insights that tell a story. We then measure this against your business strategy and sales goals to build marketing analytics dashboards that deliver actionable insights. Analytics has revolutionized how MLB and NBA games are played, from player selection to shot selection, from offense to defense. We're doing the same for big and small businesses with our analytics strategies and tactics. Schedule Consultation Forthea has been a pivotal part of the continued maturity of our web analytics program, helping us architect Google Analytics and the data layer in a way that allows us to gain meaningful insight . They implement solutions quickly and effectively, always keeping our larger strategy in mind and focusing on the details that matter. Emily Nelson // Manager, Digital Marketing, Service Corporation International Your trusted partner. Skilled Analysts on Every Team We organize each dedicated account team with seasoned analysts that dig into your data for actionable insights. By applying science creatively, our engineers can uncover deep insights, trends, and opportunities that your team will use to transform campaigns. Many agencies claim to be data-driven, but at Forthea, we are data-integrated. Account Lead Project guidance, goal alignment, and team coordination Analytics Lead Strategic guidance + data analysis Analytics Specialist Strategic implementation + performance analysis Meet Your Team Our Analytics toolbox. Google Analytics / GA4 Analyzing website data begins with proper tracking and attribution. From first click to last touch, we cover the basics with goals/filters/views and UTM parameters then configure GA4 to support your digital marketing objectives and revenue goals. Google Tag Manager GTM enables us to manage your pixel universe across websites and platforms. The power of centralized pixel management enables us to optimize for specific trigger rules and actions that support digital campaign objectives. Looker Studio (Google Data Studio) True transformation happens when we connect data with decisions. We unlock its power by consolidating data sources like Google Analytics, Google Ads, CRMs, and more into a single platform for improved decision making. Conversion Tracking Our funnel-focused perspective to analytics begins with robust conversion tracking. From phone calls and web forms to specific page visits and session analysis, we help you visualize the prospect journey to optimize for maximum revenue gains. Nailed It. Analytics Uncovers Massive ROI for Hanover Company Digital marketing is a critical business driver for this national top 15 multifamily developer. Our team drives millions of dollars of revenue each year through hyperlocal paid media and SEO campaigns focused on profitability and keeping occupancy rates high. Part of our analytics approach is to regularly organize massive amounts of campaign and traffic data to help Hanover optimize digital marketing budgets and maximize profitability. By distilling conversion data by channel and synthesizing it with revenue and gross margin, we are able to capture true marketing ROI for annual budget planning. Read More » Website Performance AnalyticsMarketing Performance AnalyticsAdvanced Marketing Analytics Science. Data science. Website Performance Analytics We work within your analytics platform connecting data to decisions. Our expertise includes Google Analytics, Adobe Analytics, Bizible, and more. We uncover unique insights by reviewing: Data Integrity and Tracking Optimization Custom KPIs and Marketing Measurement Visitor Behavior and Session Analysis Tag Management CRM Integration Monthly Reporting + Analysis Marketing Performance Analytics We integrate your omnichannel campaign performance for a full picture of how each channel is performing and build out data-driven channel optimizations. Get the most from your marketing program with our: Website Tracking Paid Search Tracking Display Platforms SEO Campaign Tracking Social Media Tracking Referral Tracking Monthly Reporting + Analysis Advanced Marketing Analytics Our Ph.D. data scientists uncover deep insights, trends, and opportunities from your marketing and website data. We invest in proprietary methods and technology to help brands solve complex marketing challenges, including: Media Mix Modeling Multi-Touch Attribution Search Based Market Intelligence Paid Media Budget Analysis Brand Health Tracking Lead Scoring Models Customer Segmentation Meet Rex (I think) I need Analytics. Now what? Form Submission Complete the form and we‘ll get back to you within one business day Obligation-Free Consultation Our team will brainstorm and present some awesome ideas to get you great results Sign Me Up! Once we ‘wow‘ you with our review, you‘ll be excited to start services right away. We‘ll send a proposal and get to work! FAQ Tools Service Results Certifications All Which industries do you specialize in? Our team has over a decade of experience working with B2B and B2C companies that span multiple industries across SMB and enterprise, including Automotive, Legal, and Multifamily Residential. Learn more about Who We Serve. What is the difference between reporting and analytics? We look at reporting as showing what is happening with your digital marketing campaigns. Analytics tells more of a story, explaining why things are happening . Our reports translate data into information and our analytics offers recommendations to drive action. How does your team communicate with us and how often? Your Account Lead will serve as the main point of contact and head of strategy. We offer multiple forms of ongoing communication including phone calls, email, project management platforms, and team collaboration tools. Your team will be in touch on a weekly basis and schedule monthly reporting meetings. In addition, we host each client for a semi-annual deep dive to plan for upcoming campaigns and to uncover opportunities for growth. What level of reporting do you provide? We provide monthly reports focused on qualitative and quantitative analysis. Reports share actionable insights from performance along with work completed, campaign metrics, and custom KPIs. How is account management structured? We are an extension of your company. Your Forthea team will be structured based on the size and complexity of the program. Every client is provided with an Account Lead with a team of specialists and analytics engineers. Our teams work with fewer client accounts than typical digital agencies so that you benefit from strategic focus and more time spent working on your brand. Do you provide access to data? Yes! From billing to account management, we maintain 100% transparency . We work within your existing advertising and analytics accounts or help you create new ones from scratch. Your assets are yours to keep and you can access your accounts at any time. Are you a Google-certified partner? Yes! We maintain premier-level partnerships with Google and Bing. Our relationships with Google give us access to beta programs and market data that other agencies are missing. Are your Analytics Specialists certified in Google Analytics? Yes! Our specialists are required to maintain up-to-date certifications in Google Analytics and other major search engines. Related Content Forthea is a leading digital marketing agency in the US, offering online marketing services for growing businesses from Houston, Texas to Canada. Learn more Data analytics in marketing has never been more important. With advanced analytics on the rise, forecasting and predictive analysis is playing a larger role in online marketing and the consumer journey. Enjoy reading this post about how big data and each step of the user journey work together! Learn more Learn how to measure the incremental impact of digital marketing for oil and gas industry. Find key strategies to maximize ROI for gas stations & jobbers. Learn more
