An advanced master’s degree in accounting provides numerous benefits including increased earning potential, job opportunities and market demand. Accounting in modern business involves more than just balance sheets and processing data. Accountants often advise business leaders regarding financial decisions and offer insights about important industry recommendations to an organization’s stakeholders. An online Master of Professional Accounting in Business Analysis and Reporting from Eastern Washington University (EWU) can help students advance their accounting career in public, private and nonprofit settings. Graduates can gain an advantage in a competitive job market with innovative accounting knowledge and essential experience. The Perks of Earning a Master of Professional Accounting in Business Analysis and Reporting Along with developing a command of accounting practices, a master’s degree in accounting can help graduates stand out from those with a bachelor’s degree. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics shows the median annual salary for accountants and auditors at $81,680 (as of May 2024), which can increase with a master’s degree. Accountancy and auditor job opportunities are expected to grow by 6% through 2033, the average across all fields. Since this online degree program is versatile and graduates can choose from many differing career paths, it is possible to find a job in the public, private or non-profit sectors. Public accountants help clients prepare tax documents, review financial reports, conduct audits and provide consulting services. A private accountant is employed by a single employer to prepare financial reports, send invoices to clients, manage accounts payable and set up the internal system to record commercial transactions. Below are a few benefits of earning a master’s degree in accounting: Greater earning potential: Accounting professionals with a master’s degree in accounting can qualify for higher-paying opportunities and advance to management or leadership positions. For example, those prepared to step into a role as a forensic accountant, tax manager, corporate controller, chief financial officer (CFO), director of accounting or compliance risk manager can earn a six-figure salary. Increased career growth: The high demand for accountants provides the opportunity for significant career growth. Earning a master’s degree in accounting is a step in the right direction toward procuring professional accounting credentials. In addition, taking the Certified Public Accountant (CPA) exam or testing for other exams and certifications can increase the desirability of a job applicant. Achieve flexibility: A master’s degree in accounting prepares graduates with business skills transferable to many different fields. While some professionals may want to work in a traditional public accounting role, others may find themselves in the financial consulting business or starting a boutique accounting firm. Earn Your Accounting Degree With Eastern Washington University This 100% online degree program accentuates important accounting topics, such as taxation and auditing and accounting law, while underscoring specialized subjects in reporting and business analysis. Students in this program can boost their understanding of global trends in business and accounting, analyze and interpret financial statements, implement ethical accounting practices and develop cost systems that enable organizational progress. With an optional internship that can improve a student’s credentials, EWU’s online Master of Professional Accounting in Business Analysis and Reporting program prepares students to demonstrate managerial decision-making capabilities and the leadership necessary for advancement in public, private and non-profit accounting roles. Learn more about Eastern Washington University’s online Master of Professional Accounting in Business Analysis and Reporting program .
