The Master of Professional Accounting (MPA) program provides rigorous preparation at the graduate level for students to achieve success in their chosen career path in public practice, industry, or government. The MPA program offers three concentrations for targeted future professional career paths in accounting, including Assurance and Analytics, Taxation, and Corporate Accounting. These concentrations provide opportunity for professional internship credit, and can lead to qualification for the Certified Public Accounting exam. How Do I Enroll? Admission to Walton College masters programs is selective. Enrollment in each program is limited. Just the Facts: Master of Professional Accounting Start Date Fall or Spring New cohorts begin each semester for this program. Admissions Info Do I Qualify to Enroll? Complete your undergraduate degree and meet additional requirements. View Requirements Entrance Test GMAT Students may be eligible for a GMAT test waiver with a 3.2 undergraduate GPA or 3 years of applicable professional work experience. Application Deadline March 1 Total Estimated Cost $21,512.70* *In-state tuition and fees. Additional tuition and fees applied for out-of-state and international students. View cost details Class Profile Current Students View a listing of current Master of Professional Accounting Students. Career Outlook The accounting department at the Walton College enjoys strong relationships with corporate partners. These corporate connections are enhanced through networking events, speaking events, and academic activities – culminating in employment opportunities. CPA: Certified Public Accountant Exam A University of Arkansas Master of Accountancy degree qualifies you to sit for the CPA exam in Arkansas. The CPA exam's primary purpose is to establish the technical credentials of those wishing to be licensed as public accountants. If you plan a career in public accounting, taking the CPA exam is a must. In addition, the CPA license is so widely recognized as a credential that many accountants who work in industry or government take the CPA exam as part of their effort to become licensed as CPAs. While the CPA exam is the same across the nation, the requirements to sit for the CPA exam vary by state. While your focus as a student is naturally on taking a certification exam, remember that this is just a step towards professional certification. In addition to passing a certification exam, there are additional requirements (e.g., experience requirements, continuing education requirements) for professional certification or licensing that you also must fulfill after graduation. Learn more: Department of Accounting: Certification Exams Courses and Program Schedule The MPA does not require a thesis or comprehensive exam. Successful completion of the Masters of Professional Accounting program from the University of Arkansas can qualify a student to take relevant professional examinations. To obtain the Master of Professional Accounting degree, students must complete the following 30 hours of coursework. Program Schedule ACCT 51203: Corporate Governance and Professionalism Aspects of corporate governance related to establishing an ethical corporate culture are addressed. The course examines various aspects of accounting and business ethics including frameworks for ethical reasoning; professional values - including integrity, objectivity, accounting independence, and professional skepticism; and other core values relevant for accountants. Accounting professional ethics codes and rules are also addressed. Corporate governance structures are examined. ACCT 54103: Advanced Financial Accounting Integrated course which examines the financial reporting, tax, managerial, systems and auditing aspects of major corporate restructurings arising from events such as mergers, acquisitions, spinoffs, reorganizations and downsizing. ACCT 55203: Advanced Accounting Information Systems This course describes accounting systems in technologically advanced environments. Controls and other technical design considerations are described for the input, processing, storage, and reporting of accounting information. Special topics, such as expert systems and artificial intelligence applications in financial accounting, auditing, and tax also receive considerable attention. ACCT 5350V: Professional Accounting Internship or General Graduate Business Elective This course allows a student to experience an internship within a business and benefit from the applied experience. The internship may be designed to offer a wide range of professional accounting experiences in Industry or Public Accounting. The internship must be supervised by a faculty member as well as a member of the firm. MACC Director approval required. Areas of Concentration: 18 credit hours Electives in the concentrations are chosen by the student in consultation with and approval of the MPA Program Director in the Department of Accounting (ACCT). With the approval of the MPA Program Director, senior-level (4000+) courses may be taken for graduate credit. For a more in-depth listing, view the academic catalog. AACSB Accreditation Department of Accounting programs are accredited by the AACSB International – The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. AACSB accreditation assures quality and promotes excellence and continuous improvement in undergraduate and graduate education for business administration and accounting. Program Information Students from all academic backgrounds are encouraged to apply. After admission, the student must maintain a 3.00 grade-point average on all graduate coursework and all accounting coursework. Prerequisites required for entry to the program include the following: Microeconomics and Macroeconomics Finite Math or Calculus Basic Statistics Business Law Management Management Information Systems Corporate Finance Financial Accounting Managerial/Cost Accounting Accounting Technology Auditing Taxation All students will take core classes related to accounting professionalism, analytic skillsets and advanced financial accounting. Students will take additional classes based on their chosen concentration: Assurance & Analytics provides students with a foundation for applying technology and analytical methodologies to data-centric accounting environments. Students will be able to navigate data environments, employ analytical tools, and apply them to business decisions and risk analysis. View Catalog Listing. Taxation provides students a broad foundation for understanding the taxation of entities and the relationship of taxes to the overall business decision process. Students will be able to analyze tax problems, interpret the relevant tax code, and identify tax strategies for complex tax situations and business scenarios. View Catalog Listing Corporate Accounting provides students a broad foundation for understanding the production and use of accounting information in corporate business environments. Students in this concentration will acquire skills to navigate public reporting environments, internal business operations, and financial decision making.View Catalog Listing News and Notes: Master of Accounting Grace Helmers, a Master of Professional Accounting student in the Sam M. Walton College of Business at the University of Arkansas, has secured a postgraduate technical assistantship with the Financial Accounting Standards Board. She is only the second U of A student to achieve this honor, and the first since 2012. 11/19/2025 | By Jerra Toms Hosted by the accounting department, associate professors Jessica Watkins (Univ. of Notre Dame), John Donovan (Univ. of Notre Dame), and Michael Iselin (Univ. of Minnesota) presented their findings from recent research papers. 10/07/2025 | By Lori McLemore “I chose the MPAcc program because the accounting professors at the U of A are the best in the business.” 06/23/2025 | By Lori McLemore Charles Leflar, clinical professor emeritus of the Sam M. Walton College of Business at the U of A, was recently honored with the prestigious Faculty Gold Medal at the annual State and National Awards Reception. 04/24/2025 | By Meghan Perry Meet Sammy Massri, a junior accounting major completing his degree online! 03/11/2025 | By Sydney Ford The Office of Financial Affairs and the Human Resources Talent Development Team are partnering to present the 2025 Accounting Certificate Program. 03/05/2025 | By Colton Morgan Kris D. Allee and Zac Wiebe, accounting faculty members and researchers in the Sam M. Walton College of Business at the U of A, recently attended an exclusive conference at the Financial Accounting Standards Board headquarters in Norfolk, Connecticut. 02/25/2025 | By Meghan Perry and Jerra Toms
