Let’s find your perfect phone. 1 2 3 4 5 What are your top priorities? results New Shop Device Placeholder Shop Device Placeholder From $599.00 ****Estimate of typical capacity based upon testing and expected cell behavior. *Estimated battery life based on testing using a median Pixel user battery usage profile across a mix of talk, data, standby, and use of other features. Battery testing conducted on a major US carrier network. Battery testing conducted in California in mid 2024 on pre-production hardware and software using default settings. Tests began with phones fully charged. Battery life depends upon many factors and usage of certain features will decrease battery life. Actual battery life may be lower. **Designed to comply with dust and water protection rating IP68 under IEC standard 60529 when each device leaves the factory but the device is not water or dust proof. The accessories are not water or dust resistant. Water resistance and dust resistance are not permanent conditions and will diminish or be lost over time due to normal wear and tear, device repair, disassembly or damage. Phone is not drop/tumble proof and dropping your device may result in loss of water/dust resistance. Damage from drops, tumbles, slips, and other external forces are not covered under warranty. Liquid damage voids the warranty. See g.co/pixel/water for details. ***Designed to comply with water protection rating IPX8 under IEC standard 60529 when each device leaves the factory but device is not waterproof or dust proof. The accessories are not water resistant. Water resistance is not a permanent condition, and diminishes or is lost over time due to normal wear and tear, device repair, disassembly or damage. Phone is not drop/tumble proof and dropping your device may result in loss of water/dust resistance. Damage from drops, tumbles, slips, and other external forces are not covered under warranty. Liquid damage voids the warranty. See g.co/pixel/water for details. *^Tested under controlled laboratory conditions, the phone is water and splash resistant to a rating of IP48 (IEC 60529) and can be submerged in up to 1.5 meters in still, fresh water for up to 30 minutes. Exposure to conditions beyond this rating are not covered by warranty. Resistance will decrease as a result of normal wear. Not designed to work while submerged under water. Do not expose to pressurised water or liquids other than fresh water. Do not attempt to charge a wet phone. Designed to protect against ingress of solid objects larger than 1mm. Not waterproof or dust proof. **^Tested under controlled laboratory conditions, the phone is water, splash, and dust resistant to ratings of IP68 and IP69 (IEC 60529). The phone can be submerged up to 1.5 meters in still, fresh water for up to 30 minutes, and is protected against powerful, high-temperature water jets for up to 30 seconds. Exposure to conditions beyond these ratings is not covered by warranty. Resistance will decrease as a result of normal wear. Not designed to work while submerged underwater. Do not expose to liquids other than fresh water. Do not attempt to charge a wet phone. Designed to provide protection against the ingress of solid foreign objects of any size. Not waterproof. *****Storage specifications refer to capacity before formatting. Actual formatted capacity will be less. Please rotate your device We don’t support landscape mode yet. Please go back to portrait mode for the best experience.
