latest Battlefield 6 Teases What Exactly It Has in Store for Fans With Its 2026 Updates Battlefield 6 gives players a hint at what can be expected from the game's 2026 updates. Sony is Acquiring a Beloved Franchise That First Started 75 Years Ago to the Tune of $457 Million Sony confirms a major $457 million acquisition of the Peanuts franchise, home to beloved characters like Charlie Brown and Snoopy. Yooka-Replaylee's Retail Edition Is A Collector's Dream The popular platform is back and better than ever 'I Really Needed It While I Played It' Ghost of Yotei's Erika Ishii Reveals Their Top 3 Games of All Time Ghost of Yotei's Erika Ishii shares their top three games of all time, including one that helped solidify their career ambitions. PC Gamers are in for a Bumpy Ride: Micron Says RAM Shortage Could Last Beyond 2026 Micron suggests that the ongoing RAM shortage could extend well into 2026 and even beyond as demand continues to eat up the available supply. Marathon Art Director Leaves Bungie Just 3 Months Before the Extraction Shooter's Official Launch Marathon is now right around the corner, but the extraction shooter's art director has stepped down ahead of the game's launch. 'This is Why We Make Games' Ghost of Yotei's Erika Ishii Picks Their Game of the Year for 2025, And It Wasn't Expedition 33 Ghost of Yotei's Erika Ishii discusses which game stood above the rest in 2025, and it wasn't the one that just broke records at The Game Awards. Epic Games Store Users Only Have 24 Hours to Claim the December 19 Free Game The latest Epic Games Store free game is now up for grabs, but PC gamers only have 24 hours to add it to their digital library. Ghost of Yotei's Erika Ishii Ideal Game Studio Would Take a Page Out of the Dropout Playbook Erika Ishii shares their ideal vision for a functioning game development studio, sharing how some of Dropout's practices would benefit workers. Genshin Impact Second Half Banners for Version 6.2 Are Great News for Natlan Fans Genshin Impact officially unveils the full lineup for the second half of Version 6.2, revealing some key reruns for 5-Star and 4-Star characters. Overwatch 2 December 18 Update Includes Vendetta Nerf, Stadium Adjustments, and Aim Assist Changes Overwatch 2 releases a new update for December 18 that pulls back on Vendetta, adjusts some heroes in Stadium, and makes changes to Aim Assist. Steam Winter Sale 2025 is Live Now and Here Are the Best Deals Steam's annual Winter Sale is officially live, and the event offers some of the year's best titles at great discounted prices. Another Blow to PC Gaming: Nvidia May Be Looking to Cut GPU Production Thanks to the Ongoing RAM Crisis PC builders looking to upgrade their graphics card may not have much time, as rumors state that Nvidia may reduce production amid the DRAM shortage. An Award-Winning PlayStation Studio is Reportedly Already Crunching on a Game That Won't Be Out Until 2027 Despite a launch window of 2027, new reports are indicating that development crunch may be hitting one of Sony's award winning studios already. Steam Users Have Until December 21 to Claim 2 More Games Completely Free of Charge PC gamers have a limited time to add two more free Steam games to their digital libraries with no strings attached. New Borderlands 4 Event Features Absurd Legendary Drop Rates For the Holiday Season Borderlands 4 launches a new holiday event, featuring some truly absurd Legendary loot drop rates. After 15 Years, Nintendo Finally Wins Wii Lawsuit After 15 years of litigation and delays, Nintendo finally comes out victorious in a long-lived lawsuit over Wii console technologies. Stardew Valley Creator ConcernedApe Comments on Update 1.7 and Nintendo Switch 2 Port Stardew Valley's 1.7 update and awaited Switch 2 port have been huge mysteries, but game creator ConcernedApe is teasing good news. GOTY Contender Rushes to the Defense of Baldur's Gate 3 Studio Larian Amid AI Controversy The director of one of 2025's biggest games defends Larian Studios CEO Swen Vincke after the dev came under fire for his controversial AI comments. PC Gamers Have Only 24 Hours to Claim Epic Games Store's Free Game for December 18 The Epic Games Store's holiday giveaway is now in full swing, with PC gamers having only 24 hours to claim the newly launched December 18 freebie.
