News Latest News Abiotic Factor's 1.2 update invites you to explore the 'Holiday Cryosphere', a festive interdimensional snowglobe where everything's on fire for some reason By Rick Lane published News And there's something off about that snowman… Co-op smash hit RV There Yet? gets an 'unplanned content update for an unplanned game' as the comedy vehicle sim surpasses 4.5 million copies sold By Rick Lane published News The game's first major patch challenges you to navigate the plump hills and plunging crevasses of Mt. Yurbuttsk. Painkiller's creator isn't a fan of its recent co-op reboot: 'I disagreed with every single thing they've done in it' By Rick Lane published News Ouch. Stalker 2 gets a new zoning permit in its 'Stories Untold' update, adding 8 missions and 7 locations as you explore what's giving Stalkers 'headaches, nosebleeds, and even hallucinations' By Rick Lane published News The patch also stops 'massive mutant hordes' spawning at the Plant location in the Garbage. FromSoftware just dropped an absolutely busted item in Elden Ring Nightreign that has completely shifted the meta overnight By Tyler Colp published news The new enhanced Balancers fight rewards you with the best relic combo in the game. A major overhaul of League of Legends is reportedly coming in 2027: 'Once we're done, it should be the best time ever to get your friends into League' By Andy Chalk published news Riot has big plans for attracting new players to its aging MOBA. Epic ritually humiliates another Fortnite fraudster who was stealing and selling accounts By Andy Chalk published news Isaac Strock is very sorry and promises he won't do it again. He's also banned for life and owes Epic some money. TikTok's US arm has been sold, in a deal that one Senate Democrat says won't do 'a thing to protect the privacy of American users' By Rich Stanton published News The new company is owned by Oracle, Silver Lake, and Abu Dhabi state investment firm MGX. Keep up to date with the most important stories and the best deals, as picked by the PC Gamer team.
