GNW: The 10 Best Things from The Game Awards The Game Awards just took place and we've got a lot to talk about! First we take a look at new games Death Howl, Skate Story and Terminator 2D: No Fate. Then we take a deep dive into The Game Awards, who were the big winners, the best performances and most importantly, what new games were announced? We go through our ten favorite announcements from the show. 46m - Dec 15, 2025 GNW: Epic vs. Valve- AI Debate, Splitgate is Back GNW is back...a little late...but we've got a lot of exciting things to talk about. Such as, Where Winds Meet, Marvel Cosmic Invasion, Storage Hunter Simulator, Hunter's Moon: A Sovereign Syndicate Adventure, Red Dead Redemption, Metroid Prime 4: Beyond and Routine. In addition to that go deep into the latest AI War between Epic Games and Valve and what the world is saying. Splitgate 2 is back as Splitgate: Arena Reloaded and Carmageddon: Rogue Shift is coming soon. 40m - Dec 9, 2025 GNW: The Game Awards Predictions, Xbox Partner Preview It's our favorite time of the year! It's awards season and today we're talking about The Game Awards (and a bunch of other stuff). First we kick things off talking about some new games, Redsec, Absolum, Speed Demons 2, Forestrike, Demon School & Kirby Air Riders. Then it's time for The Game Awards, the nominees were announced and we're picking who we think is going to leave with all the glory. In addition, we take a look at the latest Xbox Partner Preview and talk about the best things shown at that, and lastly we check out the latest Game Pass announcement for November. 1h 6m - Nov 24, 2025 GNW: The New Steam Machine Reactions, Horizon MMO, Mario Galaxy Movie We're fired up to talk about the new hardware coming from Valve but before that we're chatting about new games Shooty, Shooty, Robot Invasion, Netflix Game Night, Battlefield RedSec, Black Ops 7, Where Winds Meet & Escape From Tarkov. Then we finally get to talk about The Steam Machine, The Steam Frame and the latest Steam Controllers! In addition, we talk about the Playstation Plus game catalog for November, Red Dead Redemption on everything, Horizon: Steel Frontiers, the new Super Mario Galaxy movie trailer and a ton more! 53m - Nov 18, 2025 GNW: GTA6 & Marvel 1943 Delayed, New Game Pass & Humble Choice This week on Gaming News Weekly we kick things off talking about some new games, Dog Witch, There are no Ghosts at the Grand, Football Manage 26, Sonic Rumble, Hyrule Warriors; Age of Imprisonment and Fallout 4 Anniversary Edition. Then in the News of the Week, we talk about the big news, the sad news, GTA6 has been pushed back again, and so has Marvel 1943: Rise of Hydra. What's up with that? We also take a look at the Humble Choice and Game Pass games for November, the US Patent office revisiting patents from Nintendo, Warhammer Survivors and a bunch more. 40m - Nov 10, 2025 GNW: Battlefield Battle Royale, Animal Crossing, NBA The Run This week on Gaming News Weekly we kick things off talking about new games, The Good Old Days, Escape Simulator 2, Wreckreation, The Outer Worlds 2, Arc Raiders, Mortal Kombat Legacy Kollection and the new Battlefield Battle Royale, Redsec. Then in our News of the Week we look at the newly announced Animal Crossing New Horizons for Switch 2, Vampire Survivors X Balatro, Once Human X Palworld, an update on the Nintendo/Palworld lawsuit, Crash Bandicoot getting a TV show and NBA The Run. 49m - Nov 3, 2025 GNW: New Halo & Fallout, Project Tal, Ninja Gaiden 4 Impressions This week we kick things off chatting about a bunch of new games including Ball X Pit, The Lacerator, Gloomy Eyes, Pacific Drive, Ninja Gaiden 4, Dispatch and Once Upon a Katamari. We then crack into our News of the Week which includes the newly announced Halo Campaign Evolved and Fallout 4 Anniversary Editions as well as Krafton going full AI, Sims Mobile shut down, Violent Game taxes, and a look at the trailers for Project Tal and Dumb Ways to Party! 51m - Oct 27, 2025 GNW: Arc Raiders, BallXPit Review, PS Plus October This week on Gaming News Weekly we kick things off with FC's thoughts on Battlefield 6 and a look at Steam Next Fest. We then talk about new releases Ball X Pit, Pokemon Legends: Z to A, Keeper and the new ROG Xbox Ally. Then in our News of the Week we chat about the latest Playstation Plus Catalog games, our thoughts on Arc Raiders, Football Manager gets an upgrade and the new game Blackwood looks like the John Wick video game we always wanted. 46m - Oct 20, 2025 GNW: Battlefield 6 Reviews, Game Pass Games & More Not a ton of news this week but we've got a lot of new games to talk about! We're talking about Skate, Runeborn, Before Exit: Gas Station, Absolum, Battlefield 6, Bye Sweet Carole & Little Nightmares 3. Then we take a look at the latest Humble Choice offerings for this month and did Game Pass deliver after the big price raise last week. 46m - Oct 14, 2025 GNW: Game Pass Price Increase, Skate Season 1, Kingmakers Delay On an all new episode of Gaming News Weekly we kick things off talking about playing Skate, Nightingale and the Black Ops 7 Beta. Also, new releases, Lego Party, Final Fantasy Tactics: The Ivalice Chronicles and Ghost of Yotei. Then in our News of the Week we take a long hard look at the Game Pass price increase and changes coming to the service, Kingmakers delayed again, Skate's first season and new game Hellreaper. 42m - Oct 6, 2025 GNW: Wolverine & Forza 6 Shown, EA Buy Out, Palworld Cozy Spinoff We've got a huge episode this week so grab a drink and a snack and let's go! We kick things off talking about New Releases - Skate, Deconstruction Simulator, Baby Steps, Silent Hill f, Sonic Racing: Crossworlds & Hades 2. Then in our News of the Week, we take a look at all the best things shown at Sony's State of Play and Xbox's TGS Showcase, including Wolverine and Forza Horizon 6. Then we discuss Kojima's OD, the ROG Xbox Ally, a potential huge buyout of EA, Palworld getting a cozy farming spinoff and a bunch more! 59m - Sep 29, 2025 GNW: Xbox Price Hike, Cyberpunk 2 News, Sony Lawsuit Info Gaming News Weekly is back with more of the biggest video game news from the week. We kick things off talking about a bunch of great new games - Puzzle Quest Immortal Edition, Pigface, Skate, Dying Light: The Beast and Megabonk. Then, in the News of the Week, we chat about the Xbox price hike, Game Pass Wave 2, Cyberpunk 2 news, Sony/Tencent lawsuit, Palworld/Nintendo Lawsuit, Dispatch's release date and a bunch more. 49m - Sep 22, 2025 GNW: Nintendo Direct, Crazy Patents, Borderlands 4 Issues This week on Gaming News Weekly we're chatting about playing No Mans Sky and The Outlast Trials as well as the newest games Borderlands 4 & Lego Voyagers. Then in the News of the Week we run through the latest Nintendo Direct, full of lots of exciting announcements and new games. Our love for Nintendo diminishes quickly though with talk of all the latest video game patents they are acquiring. We also get into the Acclaim Showcase, the latest Playstation Plus Catalog games and a lawsuit regarding illegal use of an actors voice with AI. 43m - Sep 15, 2025 GNW: 007 First Light, COD Movie, Silksong & More This week on Gaming News Weekly we're talking about all the big new games like Marvel Tokon Fighting Souls, Waterpark Simulator, Hollow Knight: Silksong, Hell Is Us, Cronos: The New Dawn and Everybody's Golf Hot Shots. Then in our News of the Week we go over the latest Humble Choice and Game Pass games for September, a deep dive into 007 First Light's gameplay, A Call of Duty movie is coming and a bunch more! 46m - Sep 8, 2025 GNW: Skate Release Date, Black Ops Skins, Atari Buys Games & More More Gaming News Weekly is coming your way right now with talk of new games Fresh Tracks, Gears of War Reloaded, Metal Dear Solid Delta & Lost Soul Aside. Then in our News of the Week we're chatting about the Skate release date, the Black Ops skin controversy, Warhammer 40k Space Marine 2's huge update, Atari buying random games from Ubisoft, Acclaim coming back with a showcase and a bunch more. 36m - Sep 1, 2025 GNW: The 10 Best Things From Gamescom 2025 Gamescom crushed it this year and we're excited to talk about it...but first we're chatting about our new releases from this week, The Rogue Prince of Persia, Herdling, Sword of the Sea and Discounty. Then it's all things Gamescom as we get into all our favorite announcements and trailers from the show this week. Black Ops, Hollow Knight Silksong, Lego Batman, Fallout, Overwind, Road King, Valor Mortis, Cinder City, Hell Let Loose and a ton more! 42m - Aug 26, 2025 GNW: Black Ops 7 Leaked, Fast & Furious, PS Plus & More On this week's Gaming News Weekly we're talking about Hell Is Us, Peak, Assassin's Creed, Madden 26, Drag X Drive and OFF. Then in the News of the Week we get into the latest Black Ops 7 leaks, what to expect from Gamescom, the killer month of Playstation Plus catalog, and new arcade racers Hot Wheels Let's Race and Fast and Furious Arcade Edition. 37m - Aug 18, 2025 GNW: Nintendo Indie World, Battlefield 6 Beta, Is Guitar Hero Back? Gaming News Weekly is back with a ton of fun news. We kick things off talking about the games we're playing (Assassins Creed Valhalla, Animal Shelter Sim 2, Fruitbus, Battlefield 6) and our New Releases - Mafia: The Old Country and Tiny Bookshop. Then, in our News of the Week, we talk about all the new games added to subscription services, everything announced at the Nintendo Indie World Showcase and the THQ Nordic Showcase, Xbox cancelling Contraband and Red Octane Games is back and making a new rhythm game!! 46m - Aug 11, 2025 GNW: Battlefield 6, Splitgate 2 Unreleased, Critical Role Game The boys are back with more exciting video game news! We're playing King of Retail, Nightmare Shift, Wuchang: Fallen Feathers, Wheel World & Killing Floor 3. Then, in our News of the Week, we're chatting about the latest Battlefield 6 trailer and gameplay, Splitgate 2 going back to beta, Sony buying Bandai Namco, a Critical Role video game, a Wolfenstein TV show and more! 44m - Jul 28, 2025 GNW: Fallout 5, Mortal Kombat 2 Trailer, Game Pass July Gaming News Weekly is back with a banger! We're talking about some great games including Barn Finders, Marvel Rivals, My Friendly Neighborhood, Ready or Not, Donkey Kong Bananza & Shadow Labyrinth. We then get into the news of Fallout 5 getting the green light and the insane Game Pass lineup in July. Then we hit the Hollywood Minute with talk of the Mortal Kombat 2 trailer, Street Fighter movie casting, Zelda movie casting and an update on the Assassins Creed Netflix series. 41m - Jul 21, 2025
