“I have an agency background, so I was familiar with a lot of agencies in my area. They’re very agile. They have all the team right there to do whatever you need. We reached profitability at six months in which is very fast. We’re currently operating at 48% above our target. The team knows their stuff.” Digital Marketing in Sacramento “I have an agency background, so I was familiar with a lot of agencies in my area. They’re very agile. They have all the team right there to do whatever you need. We reached profitability at six months in which is very fast. We’re currently operating at 48% above our target. The team knows their stuff.” You Need Digital Marketing for Your Business in Sacramento Sacramento County plays host to 22,756 companies that are all vying for the attention of the 542,481 people living in the county. If we do the math, that means there’s one business for every 23.8 people in Sacramento, which is great for the local economy. It’s not so great if you’re one of those businesses, though, because it means that you face some really heavy competition if you’re going to get noticed and make sales. Digital marketing companies like NEWMEDIA.COM can help. Let us show you how. Marketing Director Increase Sacramento visibility, lower cost per lead, and grow revenue with SEO, PPC, and social. Request a proposal Sacramento, CA website design, UX, digital development and marketing agency INCREDIBLE PRODUCT MEETS IMPECCABLE DESIGN Top 1% Global Leader Digital Agency Ranked by Clutch 2024 The Best Marketing Agency in Sacramento Ranked by Expertise.com Top 1% Digital Agency in United States Ranked by UpCity 2024 NEWMEDIA.COM Digital Marketing Agency Our WooCommerce Portfolio Molly Hall Dorais Colorado Rocky Mountain School Want more qualified leads in Sacramento? Fill out the form to book a consultation. Book a free consultation What Will A Marketing Agency Do for My Sacramento Business? We can break down what our Sacramento digital marketing agency does for your business into four categories: Finding the people who want to buy from you Making sure you spend as little as possible to reach those people Achieving immense growth using modern marketing techniques Reaching your lead generation and revenue business goals Let's dig deeper. Define Your Target Audience You can have a pleasant team that’s extremely helpful and still struggle to make sales if that team isn’t talking to the people who want to buy from your business. Getting new customers is all about finding your “tribe,” which is the group of people who have problems that you specialize in solving. The challenge is that a lot of business owners don’t know how to find the people who could become their clients. According to a survey by Staples (reported on by Dev Pro Journal), 50% of business owners don’t know what they need to do to reach the new clients that will help them reach their business objectives. And of those that do, 33% say they struggle to come up with marketing materials that speak to those people, meaning they can’t generate revenue even when they know where their tribe is. The top digital marketing agencies solve both problems by using a data-driven approach to figure out where your clients are, then creating the marketing materials (be they digital or traditional) that speak to those people. Maximize Your Advertising Dollars Let’s assume your marketing team has a big presentation to deliver to the company’s higher-ups. That leadership team wants to see that your team has come up with some custom solutions that allow you to reach more people while keeping costs low. After all, that’s the secret to making money – spend less to reach more people who’ll buy from your Sacramento business. If you go into that meeting only having used a few traditional marketing techniques to get eyes on your business, you may not reach your organization’s objectives for cost-cutting and exposure. At least, that’s what this chart shows us: CPM stands for “Cost Per Mile,” which represents how much you spend to reach 1,000 potential clients. As you can see from the chart, some of the most popular digital marketing techniques, such as dominating search engines and mastering pay-per-click (PPC) ads, deliver a far lower CPM than traditional marketing approaches. To dig into the numbers, search-based PPC costs about $2 per 1,000 impressions, with Facebook advertising coming in a touch lower. That compares well with the most cost-effective traditional methods, such as network TV ads (about $7 per 1,000 people) and radio (nearly $15 per 1,000 people). These stats open up the possibility to discuss ways to bring a digital marketing agency into your advertising strategy. You’ll save more money and can even combine digital ads with traditional ones when you work with NEWMEDIA.COM. Propel Small Businesses to the Promised Land When you have a small business in Sacramento, you’re fighting a battle on two fronts. First, you have all of the other small businesses that do what you do in the county, all of which are fighting just as hard for customers as you are. Second, there are the national and multi-national firms that set up shop in the county that can get ahead of you thanks to their wider brand exposure. Growth can seem impossible when you’re stuck in this professional pincer move. But the right digital marketing agency can help you achieve the growth you’re looking for by combining a diverse range of techniques into a strategy that propels your small business ahead of its competition. NEWMEDIA.COM has a track record of creating both long-term and immediate improvements for our clients. Our portfolio includes startups that we’ve helped to obtain a sellable position within one year of working with us. And we can point you in the direction of several small businesses that exploded in size with our help, some of which managed to grow by 10,000% in just five years. Picking the right marketing partner is like choosing your weapon for an upcoming fight. Let NEWMEDIA.COM be the weapon that helps you win the battle on two fronts that you face when trying to grow your business in Sacramento. Generate Leads (And Increase Sales) for Your Business A digital marketing company can help you generate more leads (and better-quality leads) using online techniques. And if you don’t believe us, check out these stats from CIENCE: There are a few stats here that deserve your attention. First, 40% of marketers say that getting more leads is a top priority for them in the coming year, which shouldn’t come as a surprise, seeing as more leads generally result in more customers. But it’s the stats about the techniques those marketers will use that are really interesting. Two-thirds of marketers (66%) say that social media marketing is pivotal to their lead-generation efforts, with 50% pointing to an email marketing strategy as the best way to find leads. The stats also show that companies that have a solid content marketing plan, which includes blogging, get 67% more leads than those that don’t. To simplify what you see here – working with a digital agency helps you to generate the high-quality leads your sales team needs. NEWMEDIA.COM can be that agency for local businesses. What Customers Say About Us Randall T. Scale your revenue online. Request a proposal now to receive a project blueprint, full pricing, and strategy. Get a free proposal Digital Marketing Services To summarize what our digital marketing company can do for your Sacramento business: Use content marketing, and other digital marketing strategies, to generate up to 67% more leads for your company. Make your small business competitive using strategies that have achieved 10,000% growth for other companies that used to be in your boat. Make the best use of your advertising dollars by using online paid ads that pull your CPM down from $10-$20 to less than $5. Help you escape the group of 50% of business owners who don’t know what they need to do to reach new clients. Here’s how we do it. Search Engine Optimization (SEO) Services We all know that getting to the top of search rankings is a priority for most small businesses. But what you may not know is just how important getting those rankings is for your organic search prospects. What we see here is that websites that land in the first position for desktop searchers get a 31.52% clickthrough rate (CTR), which means that almost a third of all searchers check out the site that has the top result. On mobile, that number drops to 24.05%, though that’s still really high. Dip down to the fifth position in results, and the CTR on both desktops and mobile is about 4%. Once you get to the second page of search results, CTRs fall off a cliff, with those businesses being lucky to get 1% of searchers clicking on their website. The message is clear – you’re going to get organic traffic if your business is at the top of the search pile. NEWMEDIA.COM makes sure that happens with quality search engine optimization. Web Development and Web Design According to this chart from LinkedIn, three-quarters of people judge your company based on how its website looks: What’s more, 75% of people say that the quality of your web design sensibilities (combined with the behind-the-scenes stuff that makes the site work) has a direct link to your credibility as a business. Simply put – first impressions matter. With NEWMEDIA.COM’s web design and website development services, you master both sides of the sire creation game. On the web design side, we make sure your new website looks the part using proven graphic design techniques, such as constructing a clean site with navigational elements that are clear and effective. We basically treat your site like a data visualization project to make it as easy as possible for users to make their way around. On the web development side, we’re masters of tinkering under the hood for your site. You’ll get clean code (which is a key digital marketing technique because it makes your website run faster) as well as our guarantee that every aspect of your site works the way it’s supposed to work. Social Media Marketing Strategy Combine the right marketing techniques with effective social media management, and you have a recipe for turning your Facebook and LinkedIn profiles into lead-generation machines. That’s not just us trying to sell our social media management services, either, because the stats prove that mastering social networks results in better lead quality: Hootsuite’s 2019 survey of marketers found that close to two-thirds (59%) say that social media marketing is the key to boosting the quality of their leads. That’s ahead of the nurturing effects of email marketing (40%) and even website personalization, which has 38% of marketers saying it’s great for improving lead quality. The NEWMEDIA.COM digital marketing company helps Sacramento businesses build social media profiles that improve the quality of their leads. Content Marketing Content has been the reigning king in digital marketing for as long as companies have used the web to showcase their products. Whether it’s the product information on your website, the blogs you write (for your site and others), or even the copy you create for your online ads, content reigns supreme. And it makes you money, especially when you mix content marketing with other SEO services, as this chart demonstrates: From this, we can see that 52% of B2B clients are more likely to buy from your business after reading your content. But it’s the pie chart on the left-hand side that’s really interesting because it shows us that 48% of buyers engage with at least five pieces of content before they speak to one of your salespeople. Great content is part of what NEWMEDIA.COM does. And whether that means writing brand-new content or making minimal adjustments for optimization purposes to existing content, we’ll make sure your buyers see what they need to see. Online Advertising and Social Media Advertising Paid ads are one of those simple digital marketing services that we can break down as follows – you pay a little money to earn a whole lot more. Your ads can also get you onto the top of search results (and in a more prominent position on social media sites) while you wait for your organic search engine optimization to take effect. The trick is to create relevant paid ads, as these stats show us: According to Hey Digital, 33% of people are more likely to click on a paid search ad than they are on an organic result if that ad offers a direct answer to that question. And in a survey of customers, 75% say that what they see after clicking on a paid ad helps them learn about their searched-for items. That learning goes toward the trust in your marketing services that needs to exist for people to buy from you, making paid ads as effective when combined with other digital marketing techniques as they are when used as a standalone strategy. Custom Landing Pages Linking closely to your online ads are the landing pages that those ads point toward. A good landing page does more than sell a product, it also needs to be a source of information for visitors and offer a way for those visitors to get in touch. A good landing page, which is a combination of website design and content marketing, can result in huge conversion rates for your Sacramento business. That’s what Startup Bonsai shows with this chart: About 10% of companies say they manage an enormous 70% conversion rate from their landing pages, which is massive from a conversion optimization perspective. Even if we take out the 33% of businesses that get a conversion rate of between 1% and 10%, that still leaves us with 66% of businesses getting a rate of 11% or more with the use of great landing pages. NEWMEDIA.COM creates custom landing pages as part of our web design services. Manage Your Online Reputation Clients maximize the time they spend on research to learn as much about your company as possible. That research includes checking into your reputation, with prospects being more likely to move on to the next supplier if they don’t like what they see: This chart from Review Monitoring shows us that 72% of people say that they find the online reviews that others post about your business helpful when making their buying decision. That’s as many people as those who trust word of mouth from friends and family. What’s more, people trust online reviews more than they trust your company’s website (68%) or recommendations from third-party experts (61%). But in truth, all of these elements combine to create your online reputation. NEWMEDIA.COM can be the company that ensures your company sparkles for the people who research you. Email Campaigns In a post-modern marketing world, where everybody has their own idea of what represents truth in what they see online, email marketing is more powerful than ever before. It represents a direct line of communication between your digital marketing agency and its clients, making email a source of truth in an increasingly skeptical market. At least, that’s what the ROI stats for email show us, as we see in this chart: If we asked you for a dollar in return for $40, you’d snap our hands off. That’s what you get with email marketing, so there’s no reason not to use this classic marketing strategy. Ready to scale in Sacramento? Contact our team for a custom digital marketing quote built around your goals. Get a free proposal We Work with Small and Large Businesses We could talk for days about the services our digital marketing agency offers. But it’s about time we answered your biggest question – why NEWMEDIA.COM? No matter the size of your business, we can get results. We’ve worked with companies like CBS Television and Delta Airlines, in addition to helping several large businesses get to $1 million per day in revenue with our digital marketing. If you’re on the smaller end of the scale, we’ve proven we can achieve 10,000% business growth in just five years. Delta Sky Club The new Delta Sky Club website portal, designed and developed from scratch by NEWMEDIA.COM, allows Delta passengers who go online in any of their Sky Club lounges across the U.S. to quickly get news, weather & stock market information, in addition to tracking flights on any airline (not just Delta!), searching directly in Google, and getting maps and driving directions to/from any address on Earth. California Almonds NEWMEDIA.COM Los Angeles, in collaboration with Sterling-Rice Group (SRG), built a new website for the Almond Board of California under an aggressive development timeline. We built a multi-language website for them while ensuring a consistent user experience by bringing all four existing websites into a single universal system. Our team of experts delivered this mammoth project even after the deadline was shortened by four weeks. Six Flags The Six Flags team reached out to NEWMEDIA.COM for a complete website redesign and multi-site ecommerce web development. We redesigned the website to change its complete look and feel and organized content into categories and subcategories to simplify content discovery for visitors. Over the course of the project, we worked in close coordination with the Six Flags team to deliver the website quickly before their parks reopened. PostNet PostNet approached us to completely redesign all their websites, including those of franchisees. We developed a fresh responsive website for them to offer a consistent browsing experience to visitors irrespective of the screen size of the device they use to access the website. Additionally, we developed a tool to help visitors find their nearest PostNet center. Finally, we designed the 300+ franchise websites for them with local SEO and franchise SEO . YMCA (The Y) YMCA (now “The Y”) is an organization that we’ve all heard of and/or been a part of at one time in our lives. YMCA of Metro Denver came to us for a fresh website design that would communicate their mission of being for youth development, healthy living, and social responsibility. Even more exciting, they had just had a brand refresh and this was the chance to support that refresh with a complementary website. Haystack When CBS Television was producing the show that came to be called Haystack Help, they needed a complex yet easy to use website application to direct the TV viewers to visit, and their search for a Denver website developer led them to NEWMEDIA.COM Initially, prior to contacting NEWMEDIA. COM, they had selected another web development partner for the project. Then, there was a problem… NEWMEDIA.COM Master Your Marketing Strategy with NEWMEDIA.COM We don’t just make pretty websites. We are marketing gurus and digital experts, and our work drives our clients’ businesses forward. We have helped hundreds of companies do all kinds of great things, like start-ups getting acquired within a year , small businesses growing by 10,000% in 5 years , large businesses growing their online presence to $1,000,000 per day in revenue . There are many other great Case Studies just like these – let’s go over them together. But don’t just take our word for it The Industry Recognizes Our Achievements Expertise Upcity Clutch National Excellence Give us a call today or visit us online, at NEWMEDIA.COM . Better yet, we invite you to come and meet with us for a no-obligation consultation about your project. While it’s certainly not mandatory, we believe that the one of the best ways to determine how well we can work with you as your partner is by meeting with us in person. We’ve also got guaranteed PPC and social media marketing plans. We’re being honest, really! In a nutshell, you can rely on us for all things digital, from web design to marketing. Our expert team has designed, developed, deployed, hosted, marketed and managed 4000+ social media accounts , PPC and SEO campaigns , websites , mobile apps and software applications for clients of all shapes and sizes, including small- and medium-sized businesses , Enterprise organizations, State and Federal government , leading universities , international corporations , major brand name advertising agencies , local and global non-profits , and start-ups of practically every description. A SAMPLE OF OUR DIGITAL SERVICES Connect with Us Come Visit Us in Sacramento Unlike other Sacramento digital marketing companies, which claim to offer services in Sacramento despite not being based in the county, we have an office you can visit whenever you want: 836 57th Street, Suite 437, Sacramento, CA 95819 If you’d rather give us a call to talk all things digital marketing, you can reach us at 916-701-2910. And we’re available via email at info@newmedia.com.
