ILSI's Nutrition Reviews Journal Nutrition Reviews Journal Nutrition Reviews is a leading peer-reviewed journal dedicated to the publication of authoritative literature reviews that analyze and synthesize existing and emerging knowledge in the field of nutrition science. It is published monthly by the International Life Sciences Institute (ILSI) in partnership with Oxford University Press. Editor-in-Chief: Douglas Taren, PhD, MS Associate Editors: Brian Finck, PhD, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri, USA Corrine Hanson, PhD, RD, LMNT, FAND, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, Nebraska, USA Kathleen Holton, PhD, American University, Washington, DC, USA Joshua W. Miller, PhD, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA Muzi Na, PhD, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania, USA Rachel Novotny, PhD, RD, University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA Alejandra de Jesús Cantoral Preciado, PhD, Ibero-American University, Mexico City, Mexico Manuel Ruz, PhD, University of Santiago, Santiago, Chile Leslie Shen, PhD, CCRP, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, Texas Carolyn Slupsky, PhD, University of California, Davis, California, USA Kristina A. Varady, PhD, University of Illinois Chicago, Illinois, USA V. Saroja Voruganti, PhD, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Kannapolis, NC, USA Managing Editor: James M. Cameron, MA Journal Impact Factor 2024: 5.9 Five-Year Impact Factor: 6.6 Nutrition Reviews is ranked 13th among nutrition and dietetics journals. Early Career Editorial Board Meet the members of the Nutrition Reviews Early Career Editorial Board. These early career members add vital new perspectives, energy, and intellectual diversity to the board, which all help the journal look to the future. Nutrition Reviews Podcast Nutrition Reviews Podcast Each month, Nutrition Reviews publishes a new podcast episode featuring conversations with authors of reviews published in the journal to learn more about who they are, why they wrote their review, and how they think the review should be used to advance nutritional sciences. Listen to Nutrition Reviews podcast episodes. Article Collections Nutrition Reviews curates collections of articles on timely topics, which include top articles in the field identified by Nutrition Reviews editors. The Nutrition Reviews Article Collection Archive features access to: The most highly cited articles in the journal. Articles on omega-3 fatty acids. Articles relevant to nutrition and cognitive function. Reviews focused on stress, sleep, and nutrition. Collections about other important topics are also available to browse online. Mission and History Nutrition Reviews was founded in 1942 in response to a recognized need for expert analysis and synthesis of the vast amounts of nutrition science research being generated worldwide. Today, that need is greater still, and Nutrition Reviews continues to serve it with the same goal in mind: To help nutrition scientists, scholars, practitioners, and policymakers stay abreast of significant developments in the field through concise reports prepared with objectivity and a critical focus . Submit Your Work Interested in publishing an article or supplement? Nutrition Reviews publishes literature reviews with a focus on: Current and emerging topics in nutrition science. Food science. Clinical nutrition. And more. Articles selected for publication should clearly outline both the biological and practical nutritional implications of a timely topic. Submissions from related disciplines are welcome. Examples include: Microbiology. Biochemistry. Public health. Psychology. Sociology. Economics. Learn more with the Nutrition Reviews author guidelines. Sign up for electronic content alerts | Subscribe to Nutrition Reviews | Submit an article to Nutrition Reviews | RSS Feeds | Nutrition Reviews ' Editorial Board | Listen to Nutrition Reviews podcast episodes | Follow Nutrition Reviews on Twitter and LinkedIn Questions? Have an idea for a supplement? Contact the editorial office at nutritionreviews@ilsi.org .
