Book Your College Party, Church Event, Or Silent Disco, West Palm Beach, Florida! West Palm Beach, Florida! Silent Events® provides wireless headphone rentals for Silent Disco Parties and more! We also offer full-scale production services, including sound engineers, DJs, headphone distribution specialists and lighting. With 14 years of wireless headphone experience and producing over 700 shows per year, Silent Events is the standard in the wireless headphone industry. Florida in the News Back to school, more fests in August The arts collide tonight in Houston VIDEO: Bear Creek Music Festival Silent Disco Dancing to their own beat Bear Creek Music Festival Review PHOTOS: The Ritz Ybor Silent Disco Silent discos: Strap on your headphones and get ready to dance Jacksonville midnight tailgate to feature silent dance party PHOTOS: Winter Music Conference – HUSH Silent Disco Surfcomber Hotel’s DJ Contest is the Silent type West Palm Beach, Florida Events Upcoming Events Past Events Vans Warped Tour - Jul 28 Private Event - Mar 10 Silent Reception - Dec 01 Silent Conference - Feb 15 Private Event - Dec 21 Private Event - Oct 26 Silent Disco Birthday Party - Mar 01 Silent Party - May 19 Silent Events, Inc. is America’s original silent disco party company, that has been in business for over a decade. In addition to being the first company to introduce the concept of a silent disco party to the United States, we now produce over 700 shows annually. Our team of certified sound engineers, headphone distribution specialists and DJs, along with our customized lighting packages and specialized transmitting systems, will provide you and your guests with a unique and memorable experience. Silent Events® is a full-scale wireless headphones rental and production company. Whether it be for a large conference, silent church party, campus student activity or a small silent party at your home, we will provide you with all the wireless headphone equipment you will need. We are proud of our hands-on approach and aim to have every client’s needs met and exceeded. With a tried and true record, there's no question as to why Silent Events is the largest and most experienced silent disco provider in West Palm Beach, Florida and in the country. Silent Events® founded the University of Silent Disco and has been to hundreds of college campuses across the country! If you're looking to host a special student activity program on your campus that students will love, look no further, you have found the answer! Hosting a silent party on your campus is easy, as the staff at Silent Events has years of experience working with students, advisors and administrators alike. A silent disco party is the perfect way to celebrate student life, while being on campus in a fun and safe environment. Having multiple music options means that more students will feel included, all while engaging with one another by dancing and singing. Wireless headphone parties are perfect for university activities such as: residence hall mixers, Homecoming dances, fundraisers, Welcome Week orientation parties, study breaks, student organization recruitment, and much more. We love bringing this fun experience to West Palm Beach students every semester. No matter your school location or size, we are excited to help you put on an activity that everyone on campus will be buzzing about. If you're not exactly sure what a “silent disco” is, you might be familiar with the concept by a different name. Often referred to as: silent party, headphone disco, wireless headphone party, silent rave, silent church events TM , and silent clubbing. As America's first, largest, and most experienced silent disco production company, Silent Events understands each of these, and more. At these activities, every individual is given a pair of our Discglow TM multi-channel wireless headphones that receive the music. Our wireless headphones allow you to go between the different types of music and adjust the volume with the flip of a switch. In addition, there are many other ways to quiet your events by using our wireless headphone technology that do not include music. Our Silent Solutions SM offer audio assistance when dealing with conference breakouts, multi-lingual activities, film screenings, instructional presentations, album release tours, tradeshow booths and fitness classes like Silent Yoga TM . If you have an issue with a noise ordinance or a venue with challenging acoustics, contact us today to find out how we can make sure your attendees are hearing every word! If you have a need for a Silent Disco, Silent Party, Headphone Disco, Silent Rave, Silent Church Event, Silent Clubbing in West Palm Beach, Florida or just need to quiet your event with Silent Disco Party LED Headphones, contact us today to learn how to set up the rental of Silent Disco headphones and Silent Party equipment. College Students, Who We've Partnered With Find Us On In The Press Pollstar Really Quiet Concerts Silent Events is considered the founding father of this movement. Created by Ryan Dowd, a former tour manager for Widespread Panic and Drive-By Truckers, the company introduced wireless headphone disco parties at Bonnaroo. MSNBC Dance party craze presses ‘mute’ on speakers “I think it’s become a phenomenon because there are so many ways to enjoy it,” says Dowd. “If you don’t like loud music, you can dial down the volume. If you don’t like a certain type of music, you can change the channel. If you don’t dance, you can people watch.” JamBase Bonnaroo 2012 Review The crowd inside a relatively small tent all grooved out together while the sound is transmitted to personal wireless headphones instead of a normal PA system. To claim that the experience is surreal and a trip is an understatement. This one of a kind experiment should not be missed. I would not be surprised to see one popping up in an urban area near you soon.
