SILENCE is the trusted name in silent disco headphone rentals across West Palm Beach, FL. From private parties to public events, we bring the wireless fun right to you. SILENCE is here to provide the best silent disco rentals in West Palm Beach FL. As the premier silent disco headphone rental and a silent events company, our unique live experiences feature state-of-the-art LED headsets and top-notch silent events. Choose SILENCE today to rent our sound booth DJ-quality West Palm Beach silent disco party headsets & events. Whether you're looking for DIY silent disco headphone rentals or wanting to buy transmitters and headphones, we provide the best silent disco equipment to host the perfect event as the top silent event company in the West Palm Beach, FL area. Branded silent disco experiences in Orchid City are our specialty. With unique customizations, your SILENCE headsets will provide for a memorable experience. Use your own branding & logo to make your silent event stand out today. We have over 20+ years of events and entertainment experience. We provide West Palm Beach live DJs, onsite support, staging, lighting and wireless SILENCE equipment. From silent disco yoga to youth groups, add another level of excitement today. Rental Kit Starter Pack Rentals come with extra headphones in case you experience any issues or if you just need a couple for extra friends. Connect up to 3 transmitters and play up to 3 devices at once across multi-channel headphones. Includes professional pre-recorded DJ mixes covering multiple genres like 80's, 90's, Hip-Hop, Top 40, EDM, and more. Each rental kit comes with 3 MP3 players with pre-loaded phantom DJ mixes covering multiple genres. West Palm Beach Service Areas As West Palm Beach’s most innovative silent disco company, we loving helping you throw epic parties in Palm Beach County . We’ve worked with local large and small business for company events. We’ve thrown epic hotel parties and invigorated our youth with team building and worship across popular neighborhoods like Villages of Palm Beach Lakes, Downtown, and Palm Beach Lakes. Discover more local silent headphone rental options and events in West Palm Beach, FL — all with fast, free shipping and easy setup. Still have questions and need to get in touch? We offer professionally printed headphones in the metro West Palm Beach, Florida area. Customize the SILENCE silent disco headphones with your logo, brand, team name or a unique message that brings your event to life and create a memorable party experience that will be hard to top. Our West Palm Beach silent disco headphone rentals are available to rent at an affordable, upfront price. Our premier silent disco equipment is state-of-the-art with LED headsets and wireless transmitters. Get your quote today! Our West Palm Beach silent disco headphone rentals are available for purchase. Get your quote today by letting us know how many wireless headphones and silent headphone equipment you are looking to purchase here. After you fill out our website form, one of our team members will set up a 5-minute call to discuss the products you need to purchase and offer you a quote for your requested purchase items. Get an upfront price for West Palm Beach silent headphone rentals by filling out our quote form or calling us today! At SILENCE activations, we are here to support you in every way. Please give us a call if you no longer wish to bring your event to life with our silent disco headphone rentals. If you have ordered custom branded headsets or other specialty items, your order may be ineligible for refunds or returns once the purchase was finalized. Silent disco headphones are headsets where the music or speaker is broadcasted through wireless headphones instead of the traditional speaker system. Only people wearing the headphones can hear the music. Our SILENCE silent disco events use 3 different channels to project live or pre-recorded music, allowing party-goers to tune in to their favorite station and control their own volume. While our headphones are great for silent discos and club-like atmospheres, they’re also perfect for any other type of event! Anyone not wearing the silent headsets will still be able to hold a conversation at a normal volume, making silent headphone events in West Palm Beach, FL the perfect avenue for venues with noise constraints. Proudly serving our neighbors in West Palm Beach since 2014. Palm Beach County 26.715340, -80.053370 To discuss a custom event, branding, or large headphone quantity, simply request a free quote online. Monday – Saturday: 8:00 AM – 6:00 PM EST Sunday: Closed Rely on Silence – The name you can trust for premium quality LED Silent Disco Headphones
