Best Travel Insurance for Seniors We chose Allianz as the best travel insurance for seniors thanks to their high coverage limits, customizable plans, and optional coverage for preexisting conditions. Our experts researched and compared over a dozen travel insurance carriers to find our top choices for older adults. How We Researched the Best Travel Insurance for Seniors Here is the process we used to evaluate each carrier. We checked out each carrier’s website to see what they offered (focusing on age limits and health restrictions). We prioritized carriers that had easy-to-understand information about plans and the ability to get quotes and apply online. We went through the process of getting a quote and seeing what plans were available to seniors ages 65 and above. We spoke to representatives from each carrier on the phone to discuss travel insurance plans designed for seniors, as well as their costs, medical coverage, reimbursement and claims processes, age limits, and other factors that matter to older adults. We compared notes and narrowed our list to the top travel insurance carriers and plans for seniors. How We Chose the Best Senior Travel Insurance We looked at criteria that helped us determine whether some carriers and plans were better for older adults than others. Here are the most important factors we considered: Coverage: We chose carriers that offer the best comprehensive coverage with higher limits for trip cancellations, emergency medical transportation, and baggage delays. Specialized coverage: We focused on companies that have optional or additional specialized coverages like car rentals or accidental death and dismemberment. Issue age limits: We picked carriers that offer higher age limits and better plan offerings for seniors. Preexisting medical conditions: Our list features some carriers that offer preexisting medical condition waivers. Cruise coverage: Several companies on our list offer cruise coverage along with traditional travel insurance. Financial standing: It’s important to choose a company with an excellent financial portfolio. We selected providers with above-average ratings from reputable ranking agencies. Customer service: We assessed the ease of navigating each insurance provider’s website and claims processing center. We also evaluated how easy it was to obtain free online quotes and contact customer service. Affordability: The carriers on our list offer budget-friendly coverage for seniors over the age of 65 and their families. Why Trust Us? Our experts spent hundreds of hours reviewing travel insurance for seniors. We also consulted with older adults who travel frequently to learn about their personal experiences with different carriers and gain better insights into their advantages and disadvantages. SeniorLiving.org is supported by commissions from providers listed on our site. Read our Editorial Guidelines Coverage for preexisting conditions with select plans 10 customizable plans Unique Feature: High coverage limits Coverage for preexisting conditions with select plans 27 customizable plans Unique Feature: Can be purchased as close as one day before departure Limited coverage for preexisting conditions with select plans Three customizable plans Unique Feature: 14-day refund in most states Free online quotes Affordable cruise insurance Hassle-free claims process Contents If you plan on traveling abroad or domestically, we recommend purchasing travel insurance for some added peace of mind. Travel insurance offers protection when you find yourself in an unexpected situation, such as an injury that requires emergency medical care, lost luggage, or canceled flights. Our team spent over 100 hours researching and comparing plans before choosing Allianz as our top pick for their optional preexisting condition coverage and excellent travel expense protection. We evaluated each plan using important factors like cost, customer service, plan options, coverage amounts, and more. Best Travel Insurance for Seniors in 2025 1. Allianz - Best Preexisting Medical Condition Protection Get a Quote Links to Travelinsurance.com What we like most Coverage for preexisting conditions with select plans 10 customizable plans Unique Feature: High coverage limits AllianzGet a Quote Links to Travelinsurance.com Overview: We chose Allianz, a trusted travel insurance provider for over a century, because many of their policies offer protection for those with preexisting medical conditions. Just remember that this coverage is only available with select plans, and there are some exclusions. Allianz offers 24/7 assistance and a variety of plans, whether you’re planning a single trip or multiple trips with several destinations. One of their most popular plans is OneTrip Prime, which provides free coverage for children 17 and under when traveling with a parent or grandparent. Keep in mind that select benefits may not be available to residents of some states. Fun Fact: Allianz is best known for their role in insuring the Wright Brothers’ first flight and the construction of the Golden Gate Bridge! Pros & Cons: Pros About Allianz Preexisting medical condition coverage on select plans 10 unique plans for single trips, multi-trips, and car rentals High coverage and cancellation amounts No maximum issue age for annual travel insurance plans Rental car coverage 24/7 hotline assistance for travel emergencies and assistance Cons About Allianz Up to 30 days for claim reviews Tricky to qualify for preexisting condition coverage Rental car damage and theft coverage not available to Kansas, Texas, New York, or Washington residents on annual plans Summary: Plans and Pricing Allianz is a good choice, whether you just want coverage for one trip or you need annual coverage for multiple trips and excursions. It’s easy to get a quote online by putting in your destination, travel dates, age, state of residence, and the estimated cost of your trip. However, we found this to be true for every carrier that made our list. For individual trips, we found three plans and quotes for a single 65-year-old traveling to France for a month, with total estimated travel costs of $10,000. OneTrip Basic OneTrip Prime OneTrip Premier Cost* $642 $845 $1,041 Best for Small domestic or international trips Family vacations, cruises, and tours Dream vacations and remote destinations Epidemic coverage Yes Yes Yes Trip cancellation $10,000 (per insured) $10,000 (per insured) $10,000 (per insured) Trip interruption $10,000 (per insured) $15,000 (per insured) $15,000 (per insured) Trip change protector No $500 (per insured) $1,000 (per insured) Emergency medical/dental coverage $10,000 (per insured) $50,000 (per insured) $75,000 (per insured) Emergency transportation coverage $50,000 (per insured) $500,000 (per insured) $1,000,000 (per insured) Baggage coverage $500 (per insured) $1,000 (per insured) $2,000 (per insured) Baggage delay $200 (per insured) $300 (per insured) $600 (per insured) Travel delay $300 (per insured) $800 (per insured) $1,600 (per insured) 24/7 hotline assistance Yes Yes Yes Concierge No Yes Yes *The total costs above only cover one person. Prices increase as you add more travelers to your policy. We think that OneTrip Prime offers the best value. You get ample coverage without having to pay the higher cost for OneTrip Premier, which would equate (in this hypothetical trip) to just over 10 percent of the cost of your trip. That said, the additional peace of mind of a OneTrip Premier plan may be worth it if you want to ensure that you have the best possible coverage, especially for things like emergency medical costs and transportation. If you opt for an annual plan, your options look a bit different. Here are the quotes we got for a single 65-year-old traveler seeking one year of coverage. AllTrips Basic AllTrips Prime AllTrips Premier Cost $138 $280 $485 Best for Those who want affordable coverage, especially for last-minute bookings Travelers who want basic trip cancellation and interruption coverage Frequent travelers who are willing to pay for more coverage Covered trip length Up to 45 days Up to 45 days Up to 90 days Trip cancellation No $3,000 (per insured, per year) $2,000 (per policy, per year)* Trip interruption No $3,000 (per insured, per year) $2,000 (per insured, per year) Epidemic coverage Yes Yes Yes Emergency medical coverage $20,000 (per insured, per trip) $20,000 (per insured, per trip) $50,000 (per insured, per trip) Emergency transportation $100,000 (per insured, per trip) $100,000 (per insured, per trip) $500,000 (per insured, per trip) Baggage loss/damage $1,000 (per insured, per trip) $1,000 (per insured, per trip) $2,000 (per insured, per trip) Baggage delay $200 $200 $2,000 (per insured, per trip) Travel delay $600 $600 $1,500 (per insured, per trip) Rental car damage and theft coverage $45,000 (all insured, per trip) $45,000 (all insured, per trip) $45,000 (all insured, per trip) Travel accident coverage $25,000 (per insured, per trip) $25,000 (per insured, per trip) $50,000 (all insured, per trip) 24/7 hotline assistance Yes Yes Yes Concierge Yes Yes Yes *AllTrips Premier cancellation coverage can be customized for greater protection at a higher price. Allianz also offers higher-tier plans for business travelers (AllTrips Executive). These plans have higher cancellation and interruption coverage limits, more benefits for baggage mishaps, and options for renting business equipment. For senior travelers who want to rent a car while traveling, Allianz also offers auto coverage on most plans, or you can purchase a stand-alone car insurance plan, just like Nationwide and Travel Guard. » Related Reading: A Guide to Car Insurance for Seniors One of the best benefits of Allianz travel insurance is coverage for preexisting conditions. However, there are limitations to consider. To be covered for a preexisting condition, the condition must have exhibited symptoms or been treated within 120 days prior to purchasing the plan. Additionally, the plan must provide coverage for the entire cost of the trip and be purchased within 14 days of making your first covered purchase for the trip (flight, hotel accommodations, etc.).1 While we love that Allianz covers preexisting conditions, not every condition is covered. For example, mental health disorders and Alzheimer’s disease are not covered. You can reach out to Allianz to see if your condition is covered. Customer Feedback Though we’ve spoken with many seniors who had nothing but good things to say about Allianz Global Assistance, they have received mixed reviews online. Policyholders who were happy with their experiences generally praised the affordable pricing, simple application and quote process, and the ability to reach out to customer service representatives worldwide 24/7. However, we noticed a consistent trend of customers having negative experiences when filing claims. Many reviewers complained that the fine print on Allianz plans makes the coverage very inflexible and, in some cases, not very useful. Moreover, it’s difficult to cancel an Allianz travel insurance plan early unless you have a specific reason that the company will accept. Even among customers who have eventually received funds for their covered expenses, they complained that working with Allianz customer service reps could be frustrating, as many were unhelpful. 2. International Medical Group - Best for International Travelers What we like most Coverage for preexisting conditions with select plans 27 customizable plans Unique Feature: Can be purchased as close as one day before departure Overview: Established in 1990 in Indianapolis, Indiana, International Medical Group (IMG) is known for offering quality global insurance benefits and assistance for seniors who travel internationally. The company offers a wide range of international medical insurance and 24/7 emergency medical assistance. There are also many options for people with unique needs and travel plans — from one-time travelers to long-term expats. IMG earned our pick as the best international travel insurance for their affordable rates for longer trips, along with comprehensive coverage for medical expenses and evacuation. We appreciate that IMG offers GlobeHopper Senior, temporary health insurance for travelers ages 65 and up traveling internationally. IMG also offers travel medical insurance for individuals, families, and groups, including — like Allianz — coverage for preexisting conditions. Fun Fact: IMG’s GlobeHopper Senior travel health insurance plan offers an option to extend coverage for seniors who wish to extend their trips. Pros & Cons: Pros About International Medical Group Affordable medical plans for international travel Plans offered to travelers up to age 99 Can be purchased up to one day before departure 24/7 assistance Cons About International Medical Group Many unique plan options can make the purchasing process overwhelming Some plans only cover 30-day trips Summary: Plans and Pricing While Allianz made us do a little digging to find the right plan for our needs, IMG makes it easier by showing all of the plans available for a particular trip. Just plug in your details, the date of your trip, and the destination, and see all the International Medical Group plans you qualify for. We got quotes for a 65-year-old traveling to France for 30 days, with total trip costs of $10,000. There were eight plans and quotes from IMG, and we picked the top four plans based on price, coverage, and overall value. iTravelInsured Choice iTravelInsured SE Patriot Platinum Patriot Lite Cost $507.43 $832.80 $350.25 $173.63 Best for Travelers who want ample cancellation and medical coverage Travelers who are willing to pay more for higher medical coverage Travelers who only want medical coverage Travelers on a budget who also want customization options Medical coverage Up to $100,000 (per person) Up to $250,000 (per person) Up to $2,000,000 $50,000 (up to policy max) Medical evacuation coverage Up to $500,000 (per person) Up to $500,000 (per person) Up to $2,000,000 Up to $1,000,000 Trip cancellation 100% of trip cost 100% of trip cost Optional add-on No Trip interruption 150% of trip cost 150% of trip cost Optional add-on No Telehealth Yes Yes Yes Optional add-on We love that International Medical Group offers a wider range of plans for people on any budget (up to 27 customizable plans). You can get international medical coverage for a month for less than $200, or you can go all out and get trip reimbursement plus medical coverage. However, if you want to retire abroad, the prices for these plans increase substantially. Fortunately, we found a few plans that won’t break the bank and still offer coverage to older adults who want to see the world. Here are the quotes we found for a 65-year-old traveling to France one or more times over the course of a year. GlobeHopper Senior Multi-Trip Global Medical Gold Outreach Patriot Multi-Trip International Cost $272.13 $3,421.90 $2,609.75 $423.00 Best for Travelers taking multiple trips per year (no longer than 30 days per trip) Travelers who only want medical coverage with high coverage limits Travelers who want both medical and trip interruption coverage Younger seniors who want affordable medical coverage for multiple trips (on trips up to 60 days) Medical coverage Up to $1,000,000 Up to $5,000,000 (per person) Up to $100,000 Up to $1,000,000 ($50,000 for ages 70-79) Medical evacuation coverage Up to $250,000 (per person) Up to lifetime maximum Up to $500,000 (per person) Up to $1,000,000 Trip cancellation No No No No Trip interruption Up to $5,000 No Up to $5,000 No Telehealth Yes Yes No Optional add-on We encourage seniors to read the fine print and research IMG’s offerings, as they can be overwhelming. While IMG focuses on medical coverage for seniors traveling abroad, they also offer plans that reimburse policyholders for trip cancellation or interruption. We recommend speaking to an agent to explain your specific situation and get more tailored plan recommendations. » Useful Resource: A Guide to Insurance for Seniors While certain plans drop coverage amounts for older seniors, we appreciate that IMG offers plans to adults up to 99 years old. That’s one of the best issue ages of any carrier on this list (second only to John Hancock) and far above the industry average! Like Allianz, IMG also offers some protection for preexisting conditions, but read the fine print to ensure your condition is covered. Similar to Travel Guard, there are also unique extras that you can get with IMG, depending on your chosen plan. For instance, some plans offer reimbursement of up to $500 for identity theft, $500 for accidental pet death, and $50,000 for injuries or damages related to terrorism. » Learn More: Best Identity Theft Protection in [Year] Customer Feedback International Medical Group has a B rating from the Better Business Bureau, indicating adequate financial strength. Customer reviews are more positive than we’ve seen for other carriers like Allianz and Travel Guard. Most reviews commend IMG’s intuitive website, affordable pricing, and simple claims process. We encountered some complaints, most of which pertained to slow claims resolution or unexpected claims rejections. Did You Know? Medicare and Medicaid typically do not cover health expenses incurred outside of the United States. 3. John Hancock - Best Comprehensive Travel Insurance Coverage for Seniors What we like most Limited coverage for preexisting conditions with select plans Three customizable plans Unique Feature: 14-day refund in most states Overview: Many people trust John Hancock for their investment, retirement, financial, and insurance products. An insurance provider for over 160 years, John Hancock offers streamlined travel insurance packages with ample protection for older adults. Although on the pricier side, John Hancock has three straightforward plans ranked Gold, Silver, and Bronze, depending on how much coverage you need. John Hancock’s plans feature comprehensive coverage, including trip cancellation coverage, trip delay coverage, emergency accident and sickness medical coverage, and more. They also offer high coverage options and greater protection for seniors who want 24/7 assistance. FYI: If you purchase a John Hancock plan within the first 14 days of booking your trip, you can get the best coverage options. Pros & Cons: Pros About John Hancock High coverage limits Issue age limits up to 100 years old Coverage for travelers with preexisting conditions Frequent travel loyalty perks Excellent customer service 14-day refund in most states Cons About John Hancock Limited plan options Some plans can be expensive Need to speak with a licensed agent to get more information Summary: Plans and Pricing We like that John Hancock makes picking a plan simple (unlike IMG), but it might be a little too simple for some. There are only three options, and with relatively high rates, those on a budget may not find a plan that suits their needs. We used the same parameters to get quotes for a 65-year-old traveling to France for one month, with anticipated travel costs of $10,000. Bronze Plan Silver Plan Gold Plan Cost $760 $786 $978 Best for Domestic or international travelers who want cost-effective coverage Travelers who want a balanced plan that includes emergency medical coverage Those who want a top-tier plan with comprehensive coverage for cruises, air travel, and more Trip cancellation 100% of the trip cost 100% of the trip cost 100% of the trip cost Trip interruption 125% of the trip cost 150% of the trip cost 150% of the trip cost Trip delay $150 ($500 max) $150 ($750 max) $200 ($1,000 max) Missed connection $200 $750 $1,000 Airline ticket fee reimbursement $200 $200 $200 Baggage coverage $750 $1,000 $2,500 Baggage delay $250 $500 $500 24/7 emergency assistance Yes Yes Yes Emergency accident and sickness coverage $50,000 $100,000 $250,000 Medical evacuation $250,000 $500,000 $1,000,000 Preexisting conditions exclusion and waiver 60-day look back and 14-day waiver 60-day look back and 14-day waiver 60-day look back and 14-day waiver Terror attack coverage Yes Yes Yes Optional coverage Trip cancellation for any reason (up to 75% reimbursement), rental car collision ($50,000), accidental death and dismemberment ($300,000 to $500,000) Trip cancellation for any reason (up to 75% reimbursement), rental car collision ($50,000), accidental death and dismemberment ($300,000 to $500,000) Trip cancellation for any reason (up to 75% reimbursement), rental car collision ($50,000), accidental death and dismemberment ($300,000 to $500,000) While John Hancock’s plans are pricey and don’t have many customization options, they provide top-of-the-line coverage for medical expenses, illness, luggage protection, delays, cancellations, and more. Additionally, its exclusions for preexisting conditions are more stringent than those of Allianz. Allianz considers any condition within the last four months prior to the plan’s purchase, while John Hancock only considers conditions being treated within the prior two months. That said, John Hancock offers peace of mind and solid travel insurance plans for older adults. If you’re not satisfied or change your mind, you can call to cancel the purchase within 14 days of the effective date. Keep in mind that all travelers must reside in the same U.S. state to share a John Hancock policy. » Helpful Guide: Changes in Health and Health Care Needs as We Age Customer Feedback John Hancock’s travel insurance has received mixed reviews. While customer service reps are often praised for their prompt responses and diligence when working to find a resolution, many customers complain about the exceptions and fine print. For example, some travelers have tried to get reimbursed for lost luggage, only to find out that valuable items like cell phones, computers, and tablets may be excluded from the plan’s coverage. Others have complained that the travel delay reimbursements are often not enough to cover the actual costs of delayed flights. » You Might Like: Best Cell Phones for Seniors in 2025 4. Nationwide - Best Cruise Travel Insurance Plans Get a Quote Links to Travelinsurance.com What we like most Free online quotes Affordable cruise insurance Hassle-free claims process NationwideGet a Quote Links to Travelinsurance.com Overview: Nationwide has been around since 1925, offering insurance, investing, and retirement products for individuals and businesses. Nationwide has some of the most affordable cruise travel insurance for older adults that we’ve seen. We recommend three of their cruise plans: the Universal Cruise, Choice Cruise, and Luxury Cruise plans. The Choice and Luxury Cruise plans offer coverage for preexisting conditions. Plus, you can easily modify and add coverage even if you’ve already purchased a plan. Not all coverage is available in all states, so you’ll have to check with a local travel insurance agent. Pro Tip: Some travel insurance plans cover emergency dental care, but not all do. If you want to find a dental insurance plan to fill in the gaps, check out our guide to the best dental plans for seniors in 2025. Pros & Cons: Pros About Nationwide Travel insurance plans for cruises, single trips, and multiple trips Member of the US Travel Insurance Association Hassle-free claims Free online quotes Affordable travel insurance rates Cons About Nationwide Maximum issue age of 70 Cruise plan refund policy not available in New York or Washington Lower trip interruption limits compared to other providers (125 percent for Essential plan single trip) Summary: Plans and Pricing If you’re only interested in cruises, Nationwide is likely your best option. They have plans specifically designed for cruise-goers, with ample coverage and reasonable costs. If you want more flexible travel coverage for traditional trips, you can find better prices at Allianz and Travel Guard, or higher medical coverage limits at IMG. » Save Even More: AARP Cruise Discounts We got quotes for a 65-year-old traveling to France for one month, with approximate trip costs of $10,000. There were two plans to choose from, even fewer than what John Hancock offered for the same trip. Essential Prime Cost $1,034.04 $1,363.89 Best for Travelers who want standard trip and medical coverage Travelers who want the option to cancel their trip and get a partial refund for any reason Trip cancellation $10,000 $10,000 Trip interruption $12,500 $20,000 Baggage coverage $600 $2,000 Baggage delay Up to $100 Up to $600 Trip delay $150 per day ($600 max) $250 per day ($2,000 max) Emergency medical $75,000 $150,000 Emergency dental $500 $750 Medical evacuation $250,000 $1,000,000 Preexisting condition period and waiver Yes, if conditions are met (10 days prior to trip purchase) with a 60-day condition period Yes, if conditions are met (21 days prior to trip purchase) with a 60-day condition period 24/7 emergency assistance Yes Yes Optional coverage Rental car collision ($25,000), accidental death and dismemberment ($0 to $25,000) Rental car collision ($35,000), accidental death and dismemberment ($50,000), missed connection or itinerary change (up to $500) While you can get higher coverage with the Prime plan, the biggest difference is the ability to cancel your plan for any reason and get back up to 75 percent of the trip cost. You can’t get this with the Essential plan. Both plans are on the pricey side, but they offer ample coverage for things like medical, luggage, and trip delays or cancellations. If you want all your bases covered, Nationwide is a solid option. We just wish they had a few more plan options. Where Nationwide travel insurance really shines is their coverage for cruises. The prices are more affordable for a 30-day cruise to France with a total budget of $10,000. We also like that they have plans designed for cruises. You get many of the same coverage benefits as the Essential or Prime plans, including coverage for trip cancellation or interruption, lost, damaged, or delayed baggage, emergency medical expenses, and preexisting coverage (with higher-tier plans). Plus, you get a few unique benefits just for cruises. Universal Cruise Choice Cruise Luxury Cruise Cost $625 $792 $960 Best for Travelers who don’t have preexisting conditions and want basic, affordable coverage Travelers who want a solid balance between cost and coverage value Travelers who want top-tier coverage and the ability to cancel for any reason with reimbursement Cancel for work reasons Yes Yes Yes Return home early $250 $500 $1,000 Shipboard service disruption $100 $200 $250 Itinerary change $250 $500 $1,000 Missed connection $250 $1,500 $2,500 Nonmedical evacuation No $25,000 $25,000 Nationwide has high coverage amounts, including a 10-day review period for refunds on their cruise plans. If your trip is canceled, you’ll be reimbursed up to 100 percent of the nonrefundable trip cost. The only downside is that Nationwide has a maximum issue age of 70 on most policies, which is far below the maximum issue ages for John Hancock and IMG. » Save Even More: AARP Cruise Discounts Customer Feedback Nationwide is among the best-reviewed travel insurance carriers we’ve encountered. They consistently receive praise for their fast claims processing, friendly customer service, and comprehensive plans (particularly for cruises). Unlike Allianz, Nationwide gets a lot of positive feedback for the ease of making a claim. Most customers say that they just had to submit one or two documents proving the expenses, and they got their reimbursement in a few days. Not all customers had positive experiences with Nationwide customer service. Some have said that they filed claims and Nationwide took weeks to respond, and others had their claims rejected with little explanation. Some cited issues with covered claims being denied, including trips being canceled due to terrorist attacks. 5. Travel Guard - Best for Specialized Coverages Get a Quote Links to Travelinsurance.comTravel GuardGet a Quote Links to Travelinsurance.com Overview: As one of the world’s leading travel insurance companies, Travel Guard provides specialized coverage for older adults at affordable prices. Along with travel medical and concierge assistance, Travel Guard has responsive customer service and many optional add-ons. The provider offers three travel insurance plans: the Essential, Preferred, and Deluxe plans, with high coverage amounts up to $1 million. Coverage includes trip cancellation, baggage coverage, and travel medical expenses, along with specialized coverages such as car rental, medevac, and lodging expenses. FYI: To get a preexisting medical conditions exclusion waiver through Travel Guard, you’ll have to purchase it within 15 days of the initial trip payment. Pros & Cons: Pros About Travel Guard Specialized coverage options with most plans Easy and fast claim process Family coverage options Preexisting medical condition exclusion waiver Plans available in all states Cons About Travel Guard Some plans don’t offer flight guard, security evacuation, trip saver, trip exchange, or other specialized coverages Trip interruption reimbursement is lower than most carriers Emergency dental coverage is low for all plans Summary: Plans and Pricing Like John Hancock and Allianz, Travel Guard has three plans for individual trips. We just visited the Travel Guard website, plugged in the details of our trip, and had quotes in less than two minutes. Here are the plans for a 65-year-old traveling to France for one month, with total trip costs of $10,000. Essential Plan Preferred Plan Deluxe Plan Cost $587.21 $834.59 $1,079.97 Best for Travelers who want affordable, comprehensive coverage Travelers who want expanded coverage for trip cancellation and interruptions Travelers who want the best coverage and upgrades Trip cancellation Up to 100% of trip cost Up to 100% of trip cost Up to 100% of trip cost Cancel for any reason No Up to 50% of trip cost (optional add-on) Up to 50% of trip cost (optional add-on) Trip interruption Up to 100% of trip cost Up to 150% of trip cost Up to 150% of trip cost Medical expenses Up to $15,000 ($500 dental) Up to $50,000 ($500 dental) Up to $150,000 ($500 dental) Trip delay Up to $500 ($100 per day) Up to $800 ($200 per day) Up to $1,000 ($200 per day) Return trip interruption Up to $500 Up to $750 Up to $1,000 Missed connection Yes Yes (up to $1,000) Yes (up to $1,000) Preexisting condition waiver Yes Yes Yes Emergency evacuation Up to $150,000 Up to $500,000 Up to $1,000,000 Medical bundle Optional upgrade Optional upgrade Included Hospital of choice evacuation upgrade No Optional upgrade Included Accidental death and dismemberment Up to $30,000 Up to $30,000 Up to $30,000 Flight accident coverage Up to $100,000 (optional upgrade) Up to $100,000 (optional upgrade) Up to $100,000 (included) Lost, stolen, or damaged baggage and travel documents Up to $750 Up to $1,000 Up to $2,500 Baggage delay Up to $200 Up to $300 Up to $500 Travel medical assistance Yes Yes Yes Worldwide travel assistance Yes Yes Yes Concierge Yes Yes Yes Identity theft restoration services No Yes Yes Roadside assistance No No Yes Personal security assistance Yes Yes Yes Rental vehicle damage coverage Up to $50,000 (optional upgrade) Up to $50,000 (optional upgrade) Up to $50,000 (optional upgrade) Travel Guard’s plans offer solid coverage, with coverage you don’t see from providers like Allianz or Nationwide — like roadside assistance and concierge services. We found the cost-to-benefit ratio to be comparable to most other carriers. If you need a preexisting medical conditions exclusion waiver, you’ll need to purchase it within 15 days of the initial trip payment. You can get up to $750 to $2,500 for baggage coverage and up to $100,000 for travel medical expense coverage. Travel Guard is available in all states, and you can customize your plan to fit your trip. Like Allianz, Travel Guard offers annual policies for frequent travelers, but you’ll need to contact Travel Guard customer service to learn more and get a quote. Did You Know: Looking for ways to save on an upcoming trip? Check out our senior discounts guide to learn how you can save on hotels, cruises, transportation, and more! Customer Feedback Unlike Nationwide, Travel Guard gets a lot of negative feedback online. While they’ve been praised for their customization options and competitive pricing, a majority of reviews focused on slow claims resolution. Many people have had to wait months just to get a response from Travel Guard, and the results have not always gone in their favor. This is because, like any insurance carrier, the fine print can sometimes exclude certain expenses or situations from being covered. Comparing the Best Travel Insurance for Seniors Below is a side-by-side comparison of average quotes for 65-year-olds on a four-week trip to France with a $10,000 budget. Allianz International Medical Group John Hancock Nationwide Travel Guard Rating 4.6 4.5 4.3 4 4.0 Plan name OneTrip Prime iTravelInsured SE Silver plan Essential Plan Preferred Plan Price (per insured) for 65-year-olds $845 $832.80 $786 $1,034.04 $834.59 What Does Travel Insurance Cover? Many travel insurance plans cover the following benefits, with options for add-ons: Trip cancellation: Receive a reimbursement if you need to cancel your trip for a reason that is accepted by the carrier, like illness, injury, or the death of a family member. Trip interruption: If your trip is interrupted, you can get reimbursed for the nonrefundable amount of your trip and the cost of transportation per insured person. Travel delay: You can get reimbursed a certain amount per day if your trip is delayed for a specified period of time. Cancel for any reason: Receive a refund for a portion of your trip expenses (often up to 75 percent) if you need to cancel your trip for any reason not covered under the standard cancellation policy. Baggage delay: If your baggage is delayed for a specified period of time, you may receive reimbursement for the hours delayed, and if you need to purchase specific items due to the delay. Emergency medical: If you have dental or medical emergencies while traveling, this benefit can cover the related expenses. Car rental: As an add-on, you can get car rental insurance to help cover the cost of rental car damages and other expenses if you get into an accident. Medical evacuation: Also known as medevac, this coverage provides emergency medical transportation if you need to be airlifted. Accidental death and dismemberment: If you or a covered traveler die during your travels as a result of accidental death or dismemberment, your beneficiary would receive certain benefits. Repatriation of remains: If a traveler passes away during your trip, this benefit will cover the cost of returning their remains home. Preexisting medical condition waiver: Some carriers offer coverage for those with preexisting medical conditions. How Much Does Travel Insurance Cost for Seniors? Based on our research after obtaining online quotes from five carriers, we found that the average cost of travel insurance is $887.50 per insured person when you plan to spend around $10,000 for an international trip lasting one month. While this might seem steep, travel insurance can help you avoid thousands of dollars in out-of-pocket expenses during an emergency. According to Berkshire Hathaway, the average cost of travel insurance should be between 5 and 10 percent of your overall trip costs and is dependent on the amount you plan to spend on your trip.2 » Save For Your Trip: 8 Helpful Tips to Building a Budget on a Fixed Income Tips for Choosing the Best Travel Insurance for Seniors When planning a trip, it’s important to compare travel insurance quotes to make sure you get the best deal. It’s better to plan ahead and enjoy the rest of your trip knowing you’ve purchased the best travel insurance for your needs. We’ve compiled a list of tips on how to choose the best travel insurance below: Coverage: Many insurance providers will highlight one of their best value plans to help you stay under budget. If cost is your main concern, choose a plan that offers the minimum coverage with the option of adding additional coverage if needed. Preexisting conditions: Not all providers offer preexisting conditions waivers, so it’s important to research and inquire about this if you need it. Discounts: Agencies like AARP may offer senior discounts and travel savings if you’re a member. Consider these discounts on top of your travel insurance purchases. Medical expenses: Look into comprehensive travel insurance plans that offer substantial medical coverage. Some plans may require you to purchase separate travel medical insurance. Compare providers: Get quotes from multiple providers and compare rates and coverage. Think about the benefits that are the most important to you, along with your budget, and choose a plan accordingly. 24/7 assistance: Some companies offer 24/7 assistance, which is essential when traveling in different time zones. Also, check to see if your provider offers concierge services. Frequently Asked Questions About Senior Travel Insurance What is the best travel insurance for seniors? Allianz is our top pick for senior travel insurance because their plans are affordable and offer comprehensive coverage for medical emergencies, trip delays, cancellations, baggage issues, and more. Is there an age limit for travel insurance? Yes, most travel insurance carriers have an age limit to purchase a plan, ranging from 70 to 100 years. Why is it important to get travel insurance? Travel insurance helps protect you and your loved ones if you experience a health emergency while traveling. It can also protect and help reimburse you if your trip gets canceled, or if you lose your baggage during the trip. Does Medicare cover you when you’re out of the country? Medicare does not offer coverage for health care services you receive outside of the U.S. This is why it’s important to purchase a travel insurance policy for more coverage. What’s not covered by travel insurance? Some insurance providers won’t offer coverage for preexisting conditions, losses due to war, or inability to afford the trip. Allianz Travel. (2025). When Does Travel Insurance Cover Existing Medical Conditions? BHTP. (2025) How Much Is Travel Insurance?
