Employee Benefits Insurance is a contract between you (or a business) and an insurance company to help protect you and your loved ones from financial loss due to an unexpected event, like an accident, illness, natural disaster, or other unexpected circumstances. In the case of medical, dental or vision insurance, it can also help keep you or your family healthy by offsetting —and sometimes covering — the cost of routine care. The insurance contract itself is called a policy. The policy outlines who or what will be covered under the contract, the circumstances for which payment will be issued by the insurance company, who will receive the payment, and how much they will receive. Insurance helps to financially protect you, your dependents and your assets from emergencies, unexpected expenses, and losses. It mitigates risk by transferring potential financial burdens to providers in exchange for regular (typically monthly) payments known as premiums. An insurance policy can help you cover expenses related to routine healthcare, property damage from a natural disaster, or veterinary costs when your pet gets sick. Overall, the purpose of insurance is to help provide security, stability, and support in times of need. Having insurance may allow you to live your life with fewer worries, knowing you have a financial safety net in place. Find more insurance terms and definitions here. To put it simply, you pay a premium (usually in the form of a monthly payment) to your insurance company, and in exchange, the company will help pay for any covered accidents, routine wellness visits, and many other situations. Once you’re enrolled in your plan and it has taken effect, you’re covered until you stop paying your premiums or your policy ends. Whether you go to a routine doctor’s visit, experience damage to your home or car, or just need your teeth cleaned, your insurance company will help pay for services that fall under the scope of their coverage — either by reimbursing you directly or paying the service provider. However in some instances, before you receive reimbursement from your insurer, you’ll first need to reach your deductible. Some circumstances require you to file a claim to collect any money. That means if something happens, you’ll have to submit a request to your insurance company to receive a payout. Information on how to file a claim is typically in your policy documents. In some cases, the service provider you visit — e.g., your doctor, dentist, therapist, etc. — will handle communications directly with the insurance company. Insurance helps provide coverage for a wide variety of situations and events. The most common types of insurance include: Health insurance: helps cover medical expenses and treatments, such as routine medical visits, injuries, or hospital stays Dental insurance: often helps cover dental expenses, like regular cleanings and dental procedures Vision insurance: typically covers routine eye exams, a portion of out-of-pocket eyewear expenses, and will occasionally contribute to procedures like LASIK Legal insurance: provides access to a network of attorneys for legal help as well as digital self-help documents and resources Life insurance: pays a set amount to a designated beneficiary when the policyholder dies Accident insurance: pays out a lump sum in the instance of certain accidents Disability insurance: provides a portion of income payments to a person who can no longer work due to pregnancy, mental health, injury, illness, or accident Auto insurance: helps cover collisions, property or personal damage, and comprehensive or no-fault incidents (hitting a deer, storm damage, vandalism, etc.) Homeowners insurance: helps cover damage to your home from natural disasters, accidents, and other risks associated with owning property Critical illness insurance: helps provide financial assistance for certain illnesses Hospital indemnity insurance: helps pay expenses related to hospital stays Pet insurance: often covers veterinary costs for instances like an injury, illness, and routine vet care To summarize, here are some key benefits of having insurance: Financial protection: Insurance helps protect you and your family against unforeseen events and losses that could result in high out-of-pocket expenses. Risk mitigation: Insurance may reduce the financial burden of an unexpected expense. Healthcare coverage: Health insurance helps cover the costs of a policyholder's medical expenses, including preventative care and treatments. Legal assistance: Certain types of insurance, such as legal insurance or liability coverage, offer access to legal services, representation, and advice. Tax benefits: Depending on the insurance policy, you may be eligible to deduct insurance premiums, leading to lower taxable income and potential tax savings. When choosing an insurance plan, consider your needs and specific circumstances. Start by assessing the types of coverage you require and the level of coverage needed. Consider factors like your health, property value, dependents, and budget. Then, research and compare insurance providers, considering their plan options, costs, limits, and any additional benefits offered. If you need extra guidance, consult with an insurance professional or agent. They can help you understand your options. If you’re enrolling in an insurance policy through your employer, you can reach out to your company's HR department. Depending on the type of insurance and the enrollment period, the process of getting insurance will vary. Here are some general guidelines to help you navigate the process: Open enrollment: During the designated open enrollment period, you may be able to enroll in insurance offered through your employer or the government. Open enrollment dates for employer-sponsored plans are determined by the company and usually take place once a year. However, dates can change or vary by state or circumstance. Special enrollment period (SEP): Certain qualifying life events (QLEs) may qualify you to enroll in insurance outside of the standard open enrollment period. QLEs can include marriage, divorce, having or adopting a child, a change in residence, or a job loss. When a QLE occurs, you’ll typically have a pre-determined time frame (e.g. 30-60 days) to make changes to your insurance coverage. Year-round enrollment: Some types of insurance, such as auto, homeowners, and life insurance, can be obtained at any time during the year depending on the plan and insurance company. Contact the insurance provider directly for instructions on how to enroll.
