Hourly Planning, Consulting & Coaching Hourly rate of $250. Total cost based on complexity of plan. Tax Planning Example - Juan and Nita are considering retirement but don’t know if they have the financial resources to do so. They own several rental properties and want to know if it’s best to keep or sell, part or all, of them. They are confused about when they should apply for social security and what the tax implications of withdrawals from their IRA’s will be. They’ve also heard something about “ROTH Conversions” and wonder if this is something they should consider. TruePath met with them and gathered their financial information. We then developed a comprehensive plan that included the best timing for the sale of each rental property, when the optimal time for drawing social security is, when and why to make ROTH Conversions, and how best to produce adequate cash flow from their retirement accounts while reducing their lifetime tax bill. We met two additional times with Juan and Nita to adjust and deliver our recommendations. Total cost - $3,500. Investment Advice Example - Trish is a young professional who wants to manage her own money but knows very little about investing. She has accummulated nearly $100,000 in savings and realizes she needs to invest at least a portion of this amount. TruePath sat down with Trish and discussed her financial goals, her risk tolerance, and gathered her financial information. We met with Trish a second time and delivered basic information about various types of investments. After re-evaluating her risk tolerance based on the education she’s received, we developed a suggested plan for Trish, complete with “how-to” information, and delivered this information to her in a final meeting. Total cost - $1,250. Financial Coaching Example - A newly engaged couple wants to get off on the right foot financially, but they are both carrying some debt and neither one of them knows much about budgeting, saving or investing. TruePath met with them to gather financial information and then developed a series of six, one-hour meetings spread over three months to develop a budget and discuss foundational financial principles including debt reduction, savings, investing, etc. Total cost - $2,000 Asset Management 1% of Assets Under Management Our investment approach combines the best research of old and new in an approach that is sophisticated and yet transparent and understandable. Financial planning services are included with asset management: retirement, tax, estate, and insurance planning.
