Planning an event can take an incredible amount of time to get all of the details perfect. If you are hosting your next event in the greater Seattle area, you can bring 35 years of industry experience to your next convention, corporate conference, or celebration. Working with National Event Pros you call the shots—from full event production down to simple rentals and staff, you choose the extent of the relationship. Seattle is one of the most beautiful cities in the Northwest, and home to so many unique event locations. A National Event Pro event coordinator will help you plan and execute the event of your dreams, while accomplishing all of your objectives. Get a Free 30-minute Event Management Consultation The basis of any great event is a fantastic location. Choosing a space that can host all of your guests, entertainment, and activities can sometimes turn from fun to a troublesome challenge. Fortunately, in such a diverse, large area as Seattle, there are an incredible amount of options for small gatherings, all the way to conventions with thousands of attendees. We’ve worked with Corporate giants to turn Safeco Field and CenturyLink Field into evening of adventure. Turn the Snoqualmie tubing pass into a German-themed snow day—complete with Schnitzel and Beer. Seattle’s iconic pier locations make for great waterfront receptions to end a long conference week. Whatever event or location you have in mind, National Event Pros will work to secure your Venue choice and transform the space into your ideal experience. Being headquartered in Seattle, National Event Pros maintains a massive inventory of Photo Booths, Tents, Extreme Attractions, Concessions, and so many more event rentals. Choose from unique interactive event rentals like Giant Lite-Brite or Giant Pac-Man. Rent bleeding edge technologies such as full motion VR Simulators. When you need event rentals, you need the peace of mind that your equipment will be functional, clean, and insured. It’s critical that you choose a vendor that has you and your event patrons as their number one priority. If we don’t have what you need in stock, we maintain an extensive network of trusted Seattle Event Partners that specialize in every kind of rental you could possible imagine. Once you’ve completed all of the pre-planning for your event, there is still the critical moment of executing it. One of the most important factors is making sure that every guest interaction is a great one. The staff that are present at your event can either assist you or destroy you in that goal. We hire and train all of our internal team to be able to provide the best experience possible. With focus on punctuality, appearance, guest interaction, safety, and equipment knowledge, we leave nothing to chance. Make sure your Seattle event has a solid staffing plan in place. Browse All Seattle Event Services Tell our event coordinator a little about your event, and they’ll get in touch to discuss the details. As always, Lance and crew were punctual, pleasant, hard working and a pleasure to spend the day with at out event! See you next year!Tracy, Microsoft You all did an awesome job team. Truly appreciate how professional you were before, during and after the event. I know our team appreciated all the work you put into making this event successful for our team. Thank you very much.Chris, REI Everything was great. Delivery guys were super friendly and everyone loved the games.Laura, CBRE
