The Best New Books recommended by Five Books editors Last updated: December 12, 2025 With so many new books coming out, what’s the best way to choose what to read? At Five Books, we believe that any book that helps with either enjoying life or understanding the world better is worth reading, and those are the qualities we look for in books. (Note: We also have a list of the best books of all time. These have to be picked again and again in our expert interviews, so tend to be older books, with a few exceptions. Many of them are novels or historic texts already in the public domain and available as free ebooks). New Memoirs New memoirs continue to come out hard and fast, testimony to our enduring interest in hearing people tell the stories of their own lives. So far in 2025, these have included candid tales told in painful detail by talented writers, as well as books that combine personal history with other objectives—such as, for example, saving the internet. Dark Renaissance: The Dangerous Times and Fatal Genius of Shakespeare's Greatest Rival by Stephen Greenblatt The Colonialist: The Vision of Cecil Rhodes by William Kelleher Storey Fulvia: The Woman Who Broke All the Rules in Ancient Rome by Jane Draycott The Traitors Circle: The True Story of a Secret Resistance Network in Nazi Germany and the Spy Who Betrayed Them by Jonathan Freedland Baldwin: A Love Story by Nicholas Boggs New Biographies New Biographies Among the new biographies coming out in 2025, the lives of literary figures have been particularly prominent, including new books about Robert Louis Stevenson, the Scottish adventure writer, and Shakespeare’s rival Christopher Marlowe, who was stabbed to death aged 29. Also popular are reconstructions of lives from the distant past that we know little about, including the first King of England and Fulvia, the first wife of Mark Antony. New Literary Fiction Keep up to date with the best new releases in literary fiction here on Five Books. Our deputy editor, Cal Flyn, an award-winning author herself, writes seasonal round-ups of the best new novels from ‘literary’ writers: from buzzed-about debuts to critics’ darlings, new work from the globally recognised greats and beloved sleeper hits from writers’ writers. We love it all here at Five Books . A Cool Head in Hell: The Wartime Diaries of a British Doctor from Dunkirk to the Burma Railway by Harry Silman & Jacqueline Passman (editor) King of Kings: The Fall of the Shah, the 1979 Iranian Revolution and the Unmaking of the Modern Middle East by Scott Anderson The First King of England: Æthelstan and the Birth of a Kingdom by David Woodman The Mission: The CIA in the 21st Century by Tim Weiner The Library of Ancient Wisdom: Mesopotamia and the Making of the Modern World by Selena Wisnom New History Books New History Books It’s a golden age for historical writing, as well-researched and sometimes quite specialist books by historians are written in an engaging style for a broad audience. History books out in recent months range from ancient Assyria to the CIA in the 21st century. The Best Historical Fiction of 2025, recommended by Katharine Grant Every year, the judges of the Walter Scott Prize for Historical Fiction highlight the very best new books published in that genre over the past twelve months. In 2025, the six book shortlist features historical novels set as widely apart as ancient Sicily, 16th-century England, and 20th century Holland. Here, judge Katharine Grant talks us through their selection. The Best Mystery Books of 2025 Welcome to our running list of the best mystery books of 2025, which we’ll continue to update through the end of the year. On this list, we also include books that have been nominated for prestigious awards, like the Edgars in the US and the Dagger Awards in the UK. Bear in mind that these are the best books of the previous year, rather than the very latest—with the advantage that they’re already likely to be in paperback. 1 Our Brains, Our Selves: What a Neurologist’s Patients Taught Him About the Brain by Masud Husain 2 Music as Medicine: How We Can Harness Its Therapeutic Power by Daniel Levitin 3 Your Life Is Manufactured: How We Make Things, Why It Matters and How We Can Do It Better by Tim Minshall 4 The Forbidden Garden of Leningrad: A True Story of Science and Sacrifice in a City under Siege by Simon Parkin 5 Vanished: An Unnatural History of Extinction by Sadiah Qureshi 6 Ends of the Earth: Journeys to the Polar Regions in Search of Life, the Cosmos, and our Future by Neil Shubin The Best Popular Science Books of 2025: The Royal Society Book Prize, recommended by Sandra Knapp The Best Popular Science Books of 2025: The Royal Society Book Prize, recommended by Sandra Knapp Every year, the judges for the Royal Society Book Prize search for the most informative and most readable new books on scientific subjects. In 2025, their shortlist of the best popular science books includes a history of extinction in the colonial world, and the heartrending story of the struggle to save the world’s first seed bank during the Siege of Leningrad. We spoke to the botanist Dr Sandra Knapp, chair of the judging panel. 1 Bombard the Headquarters! The Cultural Revolution in China by Linda Jaivin 2 The Death of Stalin by Sheila Fitzpatrick 3 Putin's Sledgehammer: The Wagner Group and Russia’s Collapse into Mercenary Chaos by Candace Rondeaux 4 Shamanism: The Timeless Religion by Manvir Singh 5 Iran's Grand Strategy: A Political History by Vali Nasr Notable Nonfiction Books of Mid-2025, recommended by Sophie Roell Notable Nonfiction Books of Mid-2025, recommended by Sophie Roell From the death of Stalin and the career of Putin’s chef to shaministic rituals on the Indonesian island of Siberut, Five Books editor Sophie Roell gives an overview of some of the excellent new nonfiction books that have appeared since April. Growth: A History and a Reckoning by Daniel Susskind How Economics Explains the World (US)/ The Shortest History of Economics (UK) by Andrew Leigh The Corporation in the Twenty-First Century: Why (Almost) Everything We Are Told About Business Is Wrongfnew ec by John Kay Punishing Putin: Inside the Global Economic War to Bring Down Russia by Stephanie Baker Default: The Landmark Court Battle over Argentina's $100 Billion Debt Restructuring by Gregory Makoff New Economics Books New Economics Books Lots of new economics books are published each year, catering to a range of readers. Many are aimed at non-economists, trying to explain what the subject is about. Others focus mainly on how economics has been interpreted or used by politicians, with lots of analysis of ‘neoliberalism’ in particular over the past few years. Within academia, economics is normally expressed in equations, with new work published in article form and only occasionally as books. The Best Science Fiction Books of 2025, recommended by Andrew M. Butler The Arthur C Clarke award highlights six outstanding science fiction books every year. The judges look for books that reward re-reading and make them think, says chair of judges Andrew M. Butler. He introduces this year’s shortlist, taking in everything from time travel to heist novels: books that provoke questions, confront crises, and make us laugh.
