Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: SF, Fantasy & Horror Fairy-tale elements dominate this season’s fantasies, gothic atmosphere pervades the horror novels, and tech-based anxiety animates the sci-fi outings. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: Science Space exploration, debates over AI, and stories of wildlife resilience headline this season’s science titles. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: Romance & Erotica This season’s offerings balance the light—from Regencies to rom-coms—with the dark, including angsty romantasies and high-heat horror. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: Politics & Current Events Government malfeasance, the consequences of too much tech, and the emotional lives of medical caregivers are spotlighted in spring’s current affairs titles. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: Poetry Alongside collections confronting political upheaval and technological acceleration are works that celebrate place, art, and the enduring power of literature. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: Mysteries & Thrillers On tap this season: promising debuts, provocative prequels, and new novels from Jessica Knoll and Jo Nesbø. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: Memoirs & Biographies This season features self-portraits from pop culture personalities including Liza Minnelli and Lena Dunham, plus biographies of literary luminaries. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: Literary Fiction In spring’s most anticipated novels, the bonds of families and friends are stretched to the breaking point and the past rears its ugly head. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: Lifestyle Spring brings explorations of the complexities of women’s healthcare, social connections in the digital age, and the search for purpose in a volatile world. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: History This season, culture wars and their origins are dissected, fascism and its opponents are profiled, and enclaves of the rich and famous are infiltrated. Books for At-Home Entertaining Authors roll out the welcome mat with new books on hosting, gathering, and party planning more... Cocktail Books for All Types of Drinkers Low- and no-booze options cater to the health-conscious and sober-curious. more... Mysteries & Thrillers in Translation Authors speak the universal language of crime fiction. more... Adult Books for Spring 2026 Our editors have sifted through thousands of submissions to bring you the season’s most notable new releases, from game-changing histories to high-voltage romantasies. more... Personal Finance Books for Today’s Economy New titles help readers navigate a changing financial picture. more... and more. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: SF, Fantasy & Horror Fairy-tale elements dominate this season’s fantasies, gothic atmosphere pervades the horror novels, and tech-based anxiety animates the sci-fi outings. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: Science Space exploration, debates over AI, and stories of wildlife resilience headline this season’s science titles. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: Romance & Erotica This season’s offerings balance the light—from Regencies to rom-coms—with the dark, including angsty romantasies and high-heat horror. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: Politics & Current Events Government malfeasance, the consequences of too much tech, and the emotional lives of medical caregivers are spotlighted in spring’s current affairs titles. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: Poetry Alongside collections confronting political upheaval and technological acceleration are works that celebrate place, art, and the enduring power of literature. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: Mysteries & Thrillers On tap this season: promising debuts, provocative prequels, and new novels from Jessica Knoll and Jo Nesbø. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: Memoirs & Biographies This season features self-portraits from pop culture personalities including Liza Minnelli and Lena Dunham, plus biographies of literary luminaries. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: Literary Fiction In spring’s most anticipated novels, the bonds of families and friends are stretched to the breaking point and the past rears its ugly head. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: Lifestyle Spring brings explorations of the complexities of women’s healthcare, social connections in the digital age, and the search for purpose in a volatile world. Adult Previews Spring 2026 Fiction & Nonfiction Preview: History This season, culture wars and their origins are dissected, fascism and its opponents are profiled, and enclaves of the rich and famous are infiltrated.
