7,500+ Classes and Counting Yogaworks offers a range of levels – from Level 1 classes for beginning yoga practitioners, to Level 2-3 classes for yogis hoping to challenge themselves with difficult inversions and arm balances. Ready to get started? The YogaWorks app contains your favorite yoga styles in one place – and as a member, you get unlimited access to all of them. Available via laptop, TV, mobile phone, and iPad, our app makes it effortless to practice yoga at home or on the go. Start your 14-day free trial today! *change or cancel anytime. FAQs about Online Yoga Classes Absolutely! Our online yoga classes are taught by highly experienced and trained instructors, who know how to properly guide you through a full mind and body experience – even through a screen! There are many benefits of online yoga classes too. If you need to take a break, simply hit the pause button. If you really loved a particular class, you can retake it again and again from our on-demand catalog. Best yet, you have the ultimate convenience of practicing yoga from anywhere you have an internet connection. Practice from your living room, rooftop terrace, or even during your beach vacation! With online yoga classes, the options are endless. Our online yoga classes are easy to join. You can join any of our live classes 5 minutes prior to the class start time or simply click the link of the on-demand class you’d like to view. You can join a live class at any time while it is still in session. And remember, all live classes are recorded and can be found in the “Fresh and New This Week” category in the app, as well as searching by instructor. As soon as you press play, your yoga teacher will guide you through a deep mind and body practice – all you need is your yoga mat! The best yoga for beginners is the style that speaks to you! At YogaWorks, we offer a range of class levels, so look for Level 1 or mixed-level classes that are tailored for yoga beginners. If you are looking for a detailed introduction to all the asanas (positions), you might like to start with Iyengar Yoga or our signature YogaWorks classes, as both these styles focus deeply on body alignment and proper technique. You can access your online yoga classes on a number of devices and platforms, including: AppleTV (4th Gen +) Roku (3rd Gen +, Roku 4+) Android TV (1st Gen + 4K where available) Fire TV Stick (1st Gen +) Chromecast iPhone (iOS 12.0+, iPhone 5 and up) iPad (iOS 12.0+, iPad 4, iPad Mini 2 and up) Android phone (Android 5.0+) app.yogaworks.com (Microsoft Edge 8.8+, Safari 13+, Firefox 7.8+, Chrome 7.1+) If your yoga class freezes, there could be a problem with your connection. Check that you have service or wifi. Next, make sure your YogaWorks app is up to date. Then, try restarting your device to ensure all updates are fully integrated. To receive tech assistance for the YogaWorks app, please log into the app and click on “Profile” and then select “Help Center” > “Contact support”. We add 20+ new live online yoga classes weekly – and our online catalog of on-demand classes is constantly growing as well. Your free membership trial lasts for 14 days. After that, you can choose to purchase a monthly membership for $29.99/month, an annual membership for $179.40/year ($299) (40% OFF), or cancel with no hassle. If you have any injuries, please check with your doctor or healthcare provider before attempting online yoga classes. They will let you know if you are ready to start your practice, and which style of yoga may be best suited to you. No. Our live classes are broadcast in a one-way format so you will only be able to see your instructor. However, you can interact with them and fellow practitioners via the chat function. Yes, you can create your own list of favorites. When watching live classes at the top of the banner, simply click on the 3 dots and tap “Add to my list”.
