The highest-rated Yoga companies out of 185 vetted & reviewed in the Merced area. Rising Rooted “Susan was a great teacher, offered modifications where I needed them, and stressed the importance of making the practice our own— at 32 weeks pregnant it was great to be able to participate in a yoga class regardless of a “prenatal” focus.” i Warrior Yoga Space Heart Practice “When I walk into a class at Warrior Yoga, I notice that people talk to each other, laugh, play on their mats (already excited for a practice), and the teacher greets each person that comes through the door.” i Donna Mendes' Positive Changes “I did a yoga class their and it was very nice easy, Level I, class and the price was right, $10.” i Core Fitness “I love that I can walk in and have my whole workout planned for me, all I need to do is show up and give it what I've got, and when I've finished, I am better than when I began.” i Agape' Flow Studio Home Spirit Faith “I highly recommend this studio, not only for the fantastic flows that are taught but it is all around a great atmosphere and group of people to be around!” i Sukha Studios Hot Yoga Space “I have been to studios in LA, NYC, SF – I have to say – Sukha is on par with any big city studio I've been too in both environment, and caliber of classes and instruction!” i Village Yoga Center Meditation, Kids Yoga and Prenatal Yoga, Weight Reduction “I was sold on it because I have 3 daughters, & the schedule is very flexible- every other Sunday and yoga classes throughout the week, either in person or on zoom!” i Mountain Yoga Studio “Great studio and instructor!” i The Fix Aerial Arts and Yoga “The space is beautiful, the local honey in our tea was delicious and there is a variety of classes and times available.” i Yoga Liz Studio & Coaching “Her guidance, patience and positivity creates the best atmosphere for students at any level.” i Tower Yoga Personal & Small Group Yoga, On-Site Yoga “The time and effort that each instructor puts into their practice and message for the day is truly appreciated and makes a difference to my day and life.” i Alpine Climbing Adventure Fitness Hobby Gear Facility “Friendly and welcoming staff, accessible and challenging for all ages, I have a lot of fun going with friends or by myself, and I always recommend to my buddies who want a fun active hobby to try!” i Old Town Yoga Nervous Retired Feel “The teachers here are not only knowledgeable but incredibly caring, always making sure to cater to individual needs and creating a safe space for everyone.” i Excel Health and Fitness Life Flexibility Community “I moved here from out of state earlier this year and this was the best decision I made because I gained a community of people with like-minded values and goals.” i Blue Moon Yoga Students Hot Yoga Owner “Going to Blue Moon was something new to me because it wasn't my style of flow and practice, but I have to say that TARYN COLE by far is the best instructor I have ever met, her flow, instructions and focus towards the students were amazing.” i Four Corners Yoga Instruction “I didn't feel judged in the class, Liana took care to ensure everyone had the appropriate options for their body, and it was treated like a guided meditation with breathing.” i Blue Moon Yoga and Juice Bar Instruction “So, if you're ready to unroll your yoga mat and embrace a yoga studio that dances to the beat of its own drum, Blue Moon Yoga is waiting to welcome you with open arms and an arsenal of witty remarks” i Excel Yoga “After each session, I feel like a new person.” i Yoga Center of Fresno “What a health benefit from such a great group.” i HYP “Would definitely recommend coming in to try a class, I don't think you'll be disappointed!” i Perfect Balance Yoga “Many people use yoga for a variety of reasons including; A workout. A stretch. A de-stressor. A healing modality. A body builder. All of the above. And yet so much more. On the surface yoga can be all of these things, on a deeper level...” i Purely Hot Yoga Pilates, Workshops, Yoga “This studio is awesome and I have no complaints other than I wish they had another location in my area because a lot of people in the Folsom/EDH area would go!” i Left Coast Power Yoga Convenient Intimate Community “I can say that it is a wonderful place to spend a few hours each week, warmly welcoming and supportive for accomplished practitioners and new students like me.” i Granite Bay Jiu-Jitsu Understand Self-Defense Train “The instruction is top-notch, the facility is clean, the people are friendly and talented, and best of all, the schedule works great with my own schedule.” i Yoga Therapy Services in Merced, CA Cost Estimates Average price range is based on 523 cost profiles Average Cost $182 Minimum cost $137 Maximum cost $568 Avg Per Hour Rates $44 Average range $159 to $296 is based on 523 cost profiles. Why these companies made our list Is this page useful? Yes No Is there anything wrong with this page? Yoga Studios near Merced
