Outsourced Human Resources HR Assist Services For CEA members who want dedicated HR assistance from our experienced team of HR Business Partners. Our HR Business Partners are skilled at meeting employers where they are; helping to find solutions in creative and proactive ways: Act as your HR department so business owners can focus on day-to-day operations Provide training and onboarding for a new HR employee Employee out for FMLA or Parental Leave? A CEA HR Business Partner can step in without missing a beat, no messy temporary recruiting needed. Ready to expand your business? Our HR Business Partners can establish an HR department for your growing company. What can HR Assist do for my business? Create California & Federally compliant employment policies Handle employee onboarding & terminations Comprehensive HR check-ups Check local ordinances for laws that supersede state guidelines like minimum wage Ensure compliance with remote employees based in California With the backing of CEA’s full HR Support team, we bring over 240 years of experience to your company for a fraction of the cost of a full-time employee. These services are also available in Spanish. HR Assist is a member-only benefit. Join now to get the human resource support you need. Package Options Let us lighten your load so you can focus on driving your business! Not sure what plan will work best for you? Take our short, 6 question assessment to help determine your needs. HR Assist Plan 1 32 Hours of HR assistance per month with a dedicated Human Resources Professional. Perfect to cover an HR team member's leave of absence, or to establish an HR department for a growing company. HR Assist Plan 2 24 Hours of HR Assistance per month Dedicated Human Resources Professional. Keep your dedicated CEA HR Business Partner as a sounding board or to work on a project, once your team has a good handle on things. HR Assist Plan 3 16 hours of HR assistance per month with a dedicated Human Resources Professional. A great way to stay on top of HR trends and ahead of employment law changes. What People are Saying About HR Assist "From providing stellar HR services to leadership training , CEA has delivered valuable learnings for our team. Their superb HR service support has kept us up to date on CA labor laws and provided us with sound advice on many HR issues." - Amy D., Dairy Council "We have been working to get our company 100% compliant and CEA has been invaluable in helping us to find all the issues in our company as well as supplying all the resources we needed to fix those issues . They have been informative, helpful, and easy to work with for all our HR needs." - Bill W., Bee International Inc. Contact Us
