Why you can trust Insure.com Quality Verified At Insure.com, we are committed to providing the timely, accurate and expert information consumers need to make smart insurance decisions. All our content is written and reviewed by industry professionals and insurance experts. Our team carefully vets our rate data to ensure we only provide reliable and up-to-date insurance pricing. We follow the highest editorial standards. Our content is based solely on objective research and data gathering. We maintain strict editorial independence to ensure unbiased coverage of the insurance industry. Travelers, Amica, Northwestern Mutual, Kaiser Permanente and UnitedHealthcare are among this year’s top-ranked insurers. Each year, Insure.com rates the top auto, home, life and health insurance companies. To select the best insurance companies, Insure.com’s editors gathered and analyzed insurers’ rates, their AM Best financial stability scores, their National Association of Insurance Commissioners’ complaint records and other third-party data. We also surveyed their customers to assess each company’s customer experience, ease of service and policy offerings. We asked them if they trusted their insurance company, whether they planned to renew their current policies, what they thought about their insurer’s digital experience and more. Based on that data, the editors ranked more than 40 companies across the four major insurance categories to come up with our list of the best auto insurance companies, best homeowners insurance companies, best life insurance companies and best health insurance companies. We used a star ranking, with 5 stars being the best score. “Consumers certainly want to save money and receive a low premium when choosing an insurance company. However, it is important to also consider factors such as financial ratings, regulatory compliance and customer satisfaction,” says David Marlett, managing director of the Brantley Risk & Insurance Center at Appalachian State University and an Insure.com editorial advisor. “These rankings incorporate all of these issues and provide the consumer with a more comprehensive approach to evaluating insurance options.” What are the top 10 insurance companies? Our list includes these 10 best insurance companies: Best car insurance company (overall): Travelers Best car insurance company (regional carriers): Erie Best car insurance company for cheap rates: Nationwide Best car insurance company for claims handling: Farmers Best car insurance company for high-risk drivers: Allstate Best home insurance company: Amica Most recommended home insurance company: Progressive Best life insurance company: Northwestern Mutual Best health insurance companies: Kaiser Permanente and UnitedHealthcare (tie) It should be noted that USAA often ranks as a top insurer. But because the company only offers coverage to military members, veterans and their families, it’s not included in our overall rankings. Liberty Mutual and Safeco also were omitted from our rankings because they don’t provide pricing information – one of our key rating metrics – to our data partner Quadrant Information Services. Some other familiar names also didn’t make the cut because too few of their customers responded to our insurance survey. The top five companies in each insurance category are as follows: The five best car insurance companies Travelers finished No. 1 in our 2025 Best Car Insurance Companies ranking with a rating of 4.64 stars out of 5. It was among the top-rated carriers for offering cheap rates. The company also has an A++ (Superior) rating from AM Best, showing financial strength. In Insure.com’s survey of insurance consumers, the overwhelming majority of Travelers’ customers said they’d renew their policies. Travelers continued its run as the top company in our survey; it ranked No. 1 in 2024. Read more about the best car insurance companies of 2025. The five best homeowners insurance companies Amica is the No. 1 home insurer with an overall score of 4.73 out of 5 stars. The company has a strong record of customer satisfaction. Amica’s low rates and low NAIC complaint ratio also align with customer opinions of the company. Read more about the best home insurance companies of 2025. What to read next The five best life insurance companies 2. MassMutual 3. New York Life, John Hancock (tie) 5. Prudential Northwestern Mutual tops the list of the best life insurance companies in 2025 with 4.67 out of 5 stars. The insurer received high scores from third-party rating company AM Best for its financial stability and from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, which, among other things, tracks customer complaints. In Insure.com’s survey of insurance consumers, Northwestern Mutual received high marks for trustworthiness and policy renewal. Read more about the best life insurance companies of 2025. The five best health insurance companies 1. Kaiser Permanente, UnitedHealthcare (tie) 3. Aetna 4. Highmark 5. Elevance, Health Care Service Corp and Humana (tie) Read more about the best health insurance companies of 2025. Kaiser Permanente and UnitedHealthcare tied for the No. 1 spot in Insure.com’s ranking of the Best Health Insurance Companies for 2025 – each earning 4.17 stars out of 5. Kaiser Permanente, one of the nation’s largest not-for-profit health plans, was a top performer in a number of areas. Of the insurers on our list, it had the highest star ranking for affordability and the highest ranking from the National Committee for Quality Assurance, which evaluates healthcare plans on, among other things, member satisfaction. UnitedHealthcare is seen as the most trustworthy of the insurers we ranked. The vast majority of its customers plan to renew with the carrier and said they’d recommend the company to others. It also received the second-best National Association of Insurance Commissioners complaint index score of the companies we ranked. While these rankings are a great starting point when searching for coverage, you shouldn’t stop there if you want to get the best homeowners policy – or any other type of insurance. “Shop around and talk to local agents, brokers or companies doing business in your area,” says Karen Collins, assistant vice president for personal lines for the American Property Casualty Insurance Association. “Local agents or companies will understand your local market and be able to give you a variety of choices.” How we ranked the best insurance companies Insure.com in the fall of 2024 surveyed 1,750 insurance consumers. The survey was conducted by online market research company Slice MR. Respondents were asked to name their insurer and then grade it in a number of categories, including: Customer satisfaction Claims satisfaction Price/affordability Ease of service Policy offerings Digital experience We then asked respondents to provide a yes or no response to indicate their agreement with the following statements: I plan to keep my coverage with my current insurance company I would recommend my insurance company to others I trust my insurance company. The editors compiled the survey results and then selected – based on the number of survey responses – the top companies for further evaluation. For each category, the editors then gathered rankings and ratings from respected third parties. The editors collected AM Best data, which measure financial strength, and National Association of Insurance Commissioners’ complaint data, which ranks a company by the number of customer complaints it receives. The Insure.com team identified the NAIC codes of each underwriting company for each carrier and calculated a weighted average complaint index based on annual written premiums. The associated NAIC complaint index score was used in the calculations. They collected insurance rate data from Quadrant Information Services (for auto and home insurance), Compulife (for life insurance) and the public health marketplace (for health insurance). For health insurance, the editors also collected data from the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA), which evaluates and rates health plans. With the help of Prof. David Marlett, Ph.D., managing director of the Brantley Risk and Insurance Center at Appalachian State University, the editors created a rating system to determine which insurance companies were best in each sector. For auto and home insurers, we took the following and gave each a weight: Survey: 40% of the total score (10% customer satisfaction, 10% recommended, 10% renewal rate and 10% claims handling) AM Best: 25% of total score Annual premium: 20% of total score NAIC: 15% of total score For life insurers, we took the following and gave each a weight: Survey: 60% of the total score (10% customer satisfaction, 10% ease of service, 10% policy offerings, 10% recommended, 10% policy retention and 10% trust) AM Best: 25% of total score NAIC: 15% of total score For health insurers, we took the following and gave each a weight: Survey: 60% of the total score (10% customer satisfaction, 10% recommended, 10% policy retention, 10% trust, and 20% affordability) NCQA: 25% of total score NAIC: 15% of total score In all categories, insurers were awarded between half a star and 5 stars. No company in the ranking received less than half a star in any category, and 5 stars was the most any insurer could receive.
