Developed by Dr. Alok Kanojia Developed by Dr. Alok Kanojia Developed by Dr. Alok Kanojia Developed by Dr. Alok Kanojia Dr. K's Guide to Mental Health Dr. K's Guide to Mental Health Dr. K's Guide to Mental Health 180+ videos on Trauma, ADHD, Meditation, Anxiety and Depression led by Dr. Alok Kanojia 180+ videos on Trauma, ADHD, Meditation, Anxiety and Depression led by Dr. Alok Kanojia A tailored learning experience designed by Dr. K with over 180 videos, worksheets, glossaries and more. ✨ Get the Guide ✨ ✨ Get the Guide ✨ ✨ Get the Guide ✨ Dr K Takes topics that feel impossible to address, chop them down into bite sizes and explain them in the most simple and BS free way I have seen. Literally distilled wisdom. niclond23 Learn -> Apply -> Revist Guide. Rinse, repeat. Each time this cycle happens, my life improves just a bit. Bit by bit. maxsettings Dr K's guide has been a great resource for me on my mental health journey. It helped me understand not just what I needed to do, but why. So to Dr. K and all of the HG staff, thank you. bara1431 This was truly life changing. I completed all of the modules... and really feel more equipped to deal with life and my mental state. codyillo I integrated this product with external coaching and therapy. Both were absolutely needed and worked perfectly together. auroisflying This product has helped me understand the components of my problem in a way normal self help book, teachers, parents have not been able to. I have a map of what is wrong and how to move forward. thatguy6245 Dr K Takes topics that feel impossible to address, chop them down into bite sizes and explain them in the most simple and BS free way I have seen. Literally distilled wisdom. niclond23 Learn -> Apply -> Revist Guide. Rinse, repeat. Each time this cycle happens, my life improves just a bit. Bit by bit. maxsettings Dr K's guide has been a great resource for me on my mental health journey. It helped me understand not just what I needed to do, but why. So to Dr. K and all of the HG staff, thank you. bara1431 This was truly life changing. I completed all of the modules... and really feel more equipped to deal with life and my mental state. codyillo I integrated this product with external coaching and therapy. Both were absolutely needed and worked perfectly together. auroisflying This product has helped me understand the components of my problem in a way normal self help book, teachers, parents have not been able to. I have a map of what is wrong and how to move forward. thatguy6245 Dr K Takes topics that feel impossible to address, chop them down into bite sizes and explain them in the most simple and BS free way I have seen. Literally distilled wisdom. niclond23 Learn -> Apply -> Revist Guide. Rinse, repeat. Each time this cycle happens, my life improves just a bit. Bit by bit. maxsettings Dr K's guide has been a great resource for me on my mental health journey. It helped me understand not just what I needed to do, but why. So to Dr. K and all of the HG staff, thank you. bara1431 This was truly life changing. I completed all of the modules... and really feel more equipped to deal with life and my mental state. codyillo I integrated this product with external coaching and therapy. Both were absolutely needed and worked perfectly together. auroisflying This product has helped me understand the components of my problem in a way normal self help book, teachers, parents have not been able to. I have a map of what is wrong and how to move forward. thatguy6245 What are you struggling with? What are you struggling with? Trauma ADHD Meditation Anxiety Depression ADHD Understand the origins of thought, attention, and motivation—and how they influence action. ADHD “I want to get things done, but I just can’t seem to start.” There’s more to motivation than just willpower, especially with ADHD. Despite our greatest efforts, it can be hard to make meaningful progress toward our goals. It turns out sometimes, it’s not that we lack of motivation, but that we’re motivated in the wrong direction by our emotions. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Identify the different types of resistance that block our motivation Understand how emotions can stop you before you even begin. Use simple practices to work with resistance instead of fighting it ADHD “I keep putting things off, even when I know they’re important.” Procrastination isn’t just laziness. It’s often tied to overwhelm, fear, or avoidance. Different types of procrastination serve different purposes, and understanding which one you’re dealing with can help you find the right way forward. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Identify whether you’re stuck in perfectionism, avoidance, or overwhelm See procrastination as a meaningful signal, not just a flaw Learn targeted strategies to move past each kind of resistance ADHD anxiety “It feels impossible to shut my worries off” ADHD makes it difficult to regulate the negative emotional circuits originating in the frontal lobes of the brain. When the parts of your brain that help you regulate fear and worry aren’t firing well, anxiety can feel louder and harder to manage. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Notice the ways anxiety can build—and spiral—with ADHD Support the brain functions that will help you move from anxiety to clarity Discover ways to soothe your nervous system and find calm Trauma ADHD Meditation Anxiety Depression ADHD Understand the origins of thought, attention, and motivation—and how they influence action. ADHD “I want to get things done, but I just can’t seem to start.” There’s more to motivation than just willpower, especially with ADHD. Despite our greatest efforts, it can be hard to make meaningful progress toward our goals. It turns out sometimes, it’s not that we lack of motivation, but that we’re motivated in the wrong direction by our emotions. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Identify the different types of resistance that block our motivation Understand how emotions can stop you before you even begin. Use simple practices to work with resistance instead of fighting it ADHD “I keep putting things off, even when I know they’re important.” Procrastination isn’t just laziness. It’s often tied to overwhelm, fear, or avoidance. Different types of procrastination serve different purposes, and understanding which one you’re dealing with can help you find the right way forward. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Identify whether you’re stuck in perfectionism, avoidance, or overwhelm See procrastination as a meaningful signal, not just a flaw Learn targeted strategies to move past each kind of resistance ADHD anxiety “It feels impossible to shut my worries off” ADHD makes it difficult to regulate the negative emotional circuits originating in the frontal lobes of the brain. When the parts of your brain that help you regulate fear and worry aren’t firing well, anxiety can feel louder and harder to manage. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Notice the ways anxiety can build—and spiral—with ADHD Support the brain functions that will help you move from anxiety to clarity Discover ways to soothe your nervous system and find calm Trauma ADHD Meditation Anxiety Depression ADHD Understand the origins of thought, attention, and motivation—and how they influence action. ADHD “I want to get things done, but I just can’t seem to start.” There’s more to motivation than just willpower, especially with ADHD. Despite our greatest efforts, it can be hard to make meaningful progress toward our goals. It turns out sometimes, it’s not that we lack of motivation, but that we’re motivated in the wrong direction by our emotions. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Identify the different types of resistance that block our motivation Understand how emotions can stop you before you even begin. Use simple practices to work with resistance instead of fighting it ADHD “I keep putting things off, even when I know they’re important.” Procrastination isn’t just laziness. It’s often tied to overwhelm, fear, or avoidance. Different types of procrastination serve different purposes, and understanding which one you’re dealing with can help you find the right way forward. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Identify whether you’re stuck in perfectionism, avoidance, or overwhelm See procrastination as a meaningful signal, not just a flaw Learn targeted strategies to move past each kind of resistance ADHD Anxiety “It feels impossible to shut my worries off” ADHD makes it difficult to regulate the negative emotional circuits originating in the frontal lobes of the brain. When the parts of your brain that help you regulate fear and worry aren’t firing well, anxiety can feel louder and harder to manage. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Notice the ways anxiety can build—and spiral—with ADHD Support the brain functions that will help you move from anxiety to clarity Discover ways to soothe your nervous system and find calm Trauma ADHD Meditation Anxiety Depression ADHD Understand the origins of thought, attention, and motivation—and how they influence action. ADHD “I want to get things done, but I just can’t seem to start.” There’s more to motivation than just willpower, especially with ADHD. Despite our greatest efforts, it can be hard to make meaningful progress toward our goals. It turns out sometimes, it’s not that we lack of motivation, but that we’re motivated in the wrong direction by our emotions. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Identify the different types of resistance that block our motivation Understand how emotions can stop you before you even begin. Use simple practices to work with resistance instead of fighting it ADHD “I keep putting things off, even when I know they’re important.” Procrastination isn’t just laziness. It’s often tied to overwhelm, fear, or avoidance. Different types of procrastination serve different purposes, and understanding which one you’re dealing with can help you find the right way forward. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Identify whether you’re stuck in perfectionism, avoidance, or overwhelm See procrastination as a meaningful signal, not just a flaw Learn targeted strategies to move past each kind of resistance ADHD Anxiety “It feels impossible to shut my worries off” ADHD makes it difficult to regulate the negative emotional circuits originating in the frontal lobes of the brain. When the parts of your brain that help you regulate fear and worry aren’t firing well, anxiety can feel louder and harder to manage. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Notice the ways anxiety can build—and spiral—with ADHD Support the brain functions that will help you move from anxiety to clarity Discover ways to soothe your nervous system and find calm Trauma ADHD Meditation Anxiety Depression ADHD Understand the origins of thought, attention, and motivation, and how they influence action. ADHD “I want to get things done, but I just can’t seem to start.” There’s more to motivation than just willpower, especially with ADHD. Despite our greatest efforts, it can be hard to make meaningful progress toward our goals. It turns out sometimes, it’s not that we lack of motivation, but that we’re motivated in the wrong direction by our emotions. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Identify the different types of resistance that block our motivation Understand how emotions can stop you before you even begin. Use simple practices to work with resistance instead of fighting it ADHD “I keep putting things off, even when I know they’re important.” Procrastination isn’t just laziness. It’s often tied to overwhelm, fear, or avoidance. Different types of procrastination serve different purposes, and understanding which one you’re dealing with can help you find the right way forward. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Identify whether you’re stuck in perfectionism, avoidance, or overwhelm See procrastination as a meaningful signal, not just a flaw Learn targeted strategies to move past each kind of resistance ADHD Anxiety “It feels impossible to shut my worries off” ADHD makes it difficult to regulate the negative emotional circuits originating in the frontal lobes of the brain. When the parts of your brain that help you regulate fear and worry aren’t firing well, anxiety can feel louder and harder to manage. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Notice the ways anxiety can build—and spiral—with ADHD Support the brain functions that will help you move from anxiety to clarity Discover ways to soothe your nervous system and find calm Trauma ADHD Meditation Anxiety Depression ADHD Understand the origins of thought, attention, and motivation, and how they influence action. ADHD “I want to get things done, but I just can’t seem to start.” There’s more to motivation than just willpower, especially with ADHD. Despite our greatest efforts, it can be hard to make meaningful progress toward our goals. It turns out sometimes, it’s not that we lack of motivation, but that we’re motivated in the wrong direction by our emotions. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Identify the different types of resistance that block our motivation Understand how emotions can stop you before you even begin. Use simple practices to work with resistance instead of fighting it ADHD “I keep putting things off, even when I know they’re important.” Procrastination isn’t just laziness. It’s often tied to overwhelm, fear, or avoidance. Different types of procrastination serve different purposes, and understanding which one you’re dealing with can help you find the right way forward. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Identify whether you’re stuck in perfectionism, avoidance, or overwhelm See procrastination as a meaningful signal, not just a flaw Learn targeted strategies to move past each kind of resistance ADHD Anxiety “It feels impossible to shut my worries off” ADHD makes it difficult to regulate the negative emotional circuits originating in the frontal lobes of the brain. When the parts of your brain that help you regulate fear and worry aren’t firing well, anxiety can feel louder and harder to manage. THIS MODULE WILL HELP YOU: Notice the ways anxiety can build—and spiral—with ADHD Support the brain functions that will help you move from anxiety to clarity Discover ways to soothe your nervous system and find calm ✨ Get the Guide ✨ ✨ Get the Guide ✨ ✨ Get the Guide ✨ Meditation Features Meditation Tracks included with any guide purchase Guided Meditations to help you build a practice and stick to it Whether you’re new to meditation or looking to strengthen specific skills, each track offers a clear, structured path to fit your goals. Set weekly goals Track your progress Build a practice that grows with you Meditation Tracks included with any guide purchase Guided Meditations to help you build a practice and stick to it Whether you’re new to meditation or looking to strengthen specific skills, each track offers a clear, structured path to fit your goals. Set weekly goals Track your progress Build a practice that grows with you Meditation Tracks included with any guide purchase Guided Meditations to help you build a practice and stick to it Whether you’re new to meditation or looking to strengthen specific skills, each track offers a clear, structured path to fit your goals. Set weekly goals Track your progress Build a practice that grows with you Meditation Tracks included with any guide purchase Guided Meditations to help you build a practice and stick to it Whether you’re new to meditation or looking to strengthen specific skills, each track offers a clear, structured path to fit your goals. Set weekly goals Track your progress Build a practice that grows with you Meditation Library A collection of 40+ meditations In addition to the 20+ videos in the Meditation Module, you’ll get over 40 meditations to explore. So, you can find one (or 10!) that work best for you. Meditation Library A collection of 40+ meditations In addition to the 20+ videos in the Meditation Module, you’ll get over 40 meditations to explore. So, you can find one (or 10!) that work best for you. Meditation Library A collection of 40+ meditations In addition to the 20+ videos in the Meditation Module, you’ll get over 40 meditations to explore. So, you can find one (or 10!) that work best for you. Meditation Library A collection of 40+ meditations In addition to the 20+ videos in the Meditation Module, you’ll get over 40 meditations to explore. So, you can find one (or 10!) that work best for you. Choose your adventure Choose your adventure Learning Paths Learning Paths are curated playlists to help you explore specific topics based on your goals. Just take a short survey to unlock the content most relevant to you. Learning Paths Learning Paths are curated playlists to help you explore specific topics based on your goals. Just take a short survey to unlock the content most relevant to you. Learning Paths Learning Paths are curated playlists to help you explore specific topics based on your goals. Just take a short survey to unlock the content most relevant to you. Learning Paths Learning Paths are curated playlists to help you explore specific topics based on your goals. Just take a short survey to unlock the content most relevant to you. Skill-tree Mode Inspired by Final Fantasy X’s Sphere Grid, Skill-tree mode builds a custom path of videos based on what you’ve watched and what you need next. Skill-tree Mode Inspired by Final Fantasy X’s Sphere Grid, Skill-tree mode builds a custom path of videos based on what you’ve watched and what you need next. Skill-tree Mode Inspired by Final Fantasy X’s Sphere Grid, Skill-tree mode builds a custom path of videos based on what you’ve watched and what you need next. Skill-tree Mode Inspired by Final Fantasy X’s Sphere Grid, Skill-tree mode builds a custom path of videos based on what you’ve watched and what you need next. Bonus Features Practical worksheets to apply the concepts you learn Practical worksheets to apply the concepts you learn Practical worksheets to apply the concepts you learn Practical worksheets to apply the concepts you learn AOE Guide to connect you to content based on your interests AOE Guide to connect you to content based on your interests AOE Guide to connect you to content based on your interests AOE Guide to connect you to content based on your interests Glossary of 200+ key terms and definitions Glossary of 200+ key terms and definitions Glossary of 200+ key terms and definitions Glossary of 200+ key terms and definitions What people are saying This resource and others of his has given me the ability to progress and they speak to me in a language I understand, which is sometimes difficult to find in this world. Thank you Dr. K and your amazing team! relationships life purpose Razikt This guide didn't "fix" me, but it gave me all the tools I needed to understand myself and be more kind towards myself. From the bottom of my heart - thank you for that! challenge new perspective Warpas Dr.K's meditation guide has been absolutely revolutionary. The advice given can transcend the meditative practice into ontological understanding. Thank you so very much for the sharing of your wisdom. relationships new perspective Jcash4002 After years of floating around with fragmented information - Thank you, Dr. K - for putting all of this together. Words fall short to express my gratitude. agency life purpose Razikt I was skeptical at first, and very nervous, but as the weeks progressed I felt much more confident in my ability to deal with emotional situations and problems. confidence agency Vesperrl Having a space where I can talk about things going on in my life has been extremely helpful. I feel more in touch with myself, more confident and more authentic. confidence agency calin This resource and others of his has given me the ability to progress and they speak to me in a language I understand, which is sometimes difficult to find in this world. Thank you Dr. K and your amazing team! relationships life purpose Razikt This guide didn't "fix" me, but it gave me all the tools I needed to understand myself and be more kind towards myself. From the bottom of my heart - thank you for that! challenge new perspective Warpas Dr.K's meditation guide has been absolutely revolutionary. The advice given can transcend the meditative practice into ontological understanding. Thank you so very much for the sharing of your wisdom. relationships new perspective Jcash4002 After years of floating around with fragmented information - Thank you, Dr. K - for putting all of this together. Words fall short to express my gratitude. agency life purpose Razikt I was skeptical at first, and very nervous, but as the weeks progressed I felt much more confident in my ability to deal with emotional situations and problems. confidence agency Vesperrl Having a space where I can talk about things going on in my life has been extremely helpful. I feel more in touch with myself, more confident and more authentic. confidence agency calin This resource and others of his has given me the ability to progress and they speak to me in a language I understand, which is sometimes difficult to find in this world. Thank you Dr. K and your amazing team! relationships life purpose Razikt This guide didn't "fix" me, but it gave me all the tools I needed to understand myself and be more kind towards myself. From the bottom of my heart - thank you for that! challenge new perspective Warpas Dr.K's meditation guide has been absolutely revolutionary. The advice given can transcend the meditative practice into ontological understanding. Thank you so very much for the sharing of your wisdom. relationships new perspective Jcash4002 After years of floating around with fragmented information - Thank you, Dr. K - for putting all of this together. Words fall short to express my gratitude. agency life purpose Razikt I was skeptical at first, and very nervous, but as the weeks progressed I felt much more confident in my ability to deal with emotional situations and problems. confidence agency Vesperrl Having a space where I can talk about things going on in my life has been extremely helpful. I feel more in touch with myself, more confident and more authentic. confidence agency calin This resource and others of his has given me the ability to progress and they speak to me in a language I understand, which is sometimes difficult to find in this world. Thank you Dr. K and your amazing team! relationships life purpose Razikt This guide didn't "fix" me, but it gave me all the tools I needed to understand myself and be more kind towards myself. From the bottom of my heart - thank you for that! challenge new perspective Warpas Dr.K's meditation guide has been absolutely revolutionary. The advice given can transcend the meditative practice into ontological understanding. Thank you so very much for the sharing of your wisdom. relationships new perspective Jcash4002 After years of floating around with fragmented information - Thank you, Dr. K - for putting all of this together. Words fall short to express my gratitude. agency life purpose Razikt I was skeptical at first, and very nervous, but as the weeks progressed I felt much more confident in my ability to deal with emotional situations and problems. confidence agency Vesperrl Having a space where I can talk about things going on in my life has been extremely helpful. I feel more in touch with myself, more confident and more authentic. confidence agency calin This resource and others of his has given me the ability to progress and they speak to me in a language I understand, which is sometimes difficult to find in this world. Thank you Dr. K and your amazing team! relationships life purpose Razikt This guide didn't "fix" me, but it gave me all the tools I needed to understand myself and be more kind towards myself. From the bottom of my heart - thank you for that! challenge new perspective Warpas Dr.K's meditation guide has been absolutely revolutionary. The advice given can transcend the meditative practice into ontological understanding. Thank you so very much for the sharing of your wisdom. relationships new perspective Jcash4002 After years of floating around with fragmented information - Thank you, Dr. K - for putting all of this together. Words fall short to express my gratitude. agency life purpose Razikt I was skeptical at first, and very nervous, but as the weeks progressed I felt much more confident in my ability to deal with emotional situations and problems. confidence agency Vesperrl Having a space where I can talk about things going on in my life has been extremely helpful. I feel more in touch with myself, more confident and more authentic. confidence agency calin Start your journey Individual Modules Individual Modules $30 $30 Per module Per module Refund Policy If for any reason you are dissatisfied with Dr. K’s Guide to Mental Health and would like a refund on your purchase, freel free to send an email to support@guide.healthygamer.gg with the subject line “Dr. K’s Guide Refund” within 7 days of your purchase. Please include a copy of your receipt, the Discord account name (Username#1234) and email that the purchase is associated with, and any comments or feedback about what was unsatisfactory. Your refund will be credited back to your original form of payment. Please note that donated amounts to the Healthy Gamer Foundation are NOT refundable. Refunds take 5 - 7 business days to be processed. Refund Policy If for any reason you are dissatisfied with Dr. K’s Guide to Mental Health and would like a refund on your purchase, freel free to send an email to support@guide.healthygamer.gg with the subject line “Dr. K’s Guide Refund” within 7 days of your purchase. Please include a copy of your receipt, the Discord account name (Username#1234) and email that the purchase is associated with, and any comments or feedback about what was unsatisfactory. Your refund will be credited back to your original form of payment. Please note that donated amounts to the Healthy Gamer Foundation are NOT refundable. Refunds take 5 - 7 business days to be processed. Start your journey Individual Modules $30 Per module Refund Policy If for any reason you are dissatisfied with Dr. K’s Guide to Mental Health and would like a refund on your purchase, freel free to send an email to support@guide.healthygamer.gg with the subject line “Dr. K’s Guide Refund” within 7 days of your purchase. Please include a copy of your receipt, the Discord account name (Username#1234) and email that the purchase is associated with, and any comments or feedback about what was unsatisfactory. Your refund will be credited back to your original form of payment. Please note that donated amounts to the Healthy Gamer Foundation are NOT refundable. Refunds take 5 - 7 business days to be processed. Start your journey Individual Modules $30 Per module Refund Policy If for any reason you are dissatisfied with Dr. K’s Guide to Mental Health and would like a refund on your purchase, freel free to send an email to support@guide.healthygamer.gg with the subject line “Dr. K’s Guide Refund” within 7 days of your purchase. Please include a copy of your receipt, the Discord account name (Username#1234) and email that the purchase is associated with, and any comments or feedback about what was unsatisfactory. Your refund will be credited back to your original form of payment. Please note that donated amounts to the Healthy Gamer Foundation are NOT refundable. Refunds take 5 - 7 business days to be processed. Mental Health Newsletter Get the latest in mental health research, industry updates, and more Healthy Gamer is developed by world-class addictions expert Dr. Alok Kanojia. Mental Health Newsletter Get the latest in mental health research, industry updates, and more Healthy Gamer is developed by world-class addictions expert Dr. Alok Kanojia. Mental Health Newsletter Get the latest in mental health research, industry updates, and more Healthy Gamer is developed by world-class addictions expert Dr. Alok Kanojia. Mental Health Newsletter Get the latest in mental health research, industry updates, and more Healthy Gamer is developed by world-class addictions expert Dr. Alok Kanojia.
