Breathe in Music When the first notes of [the music] threaded their way into my consciousness, they seemed to come from inside me…music wound its way through me as sound turned pure sensation.” – CORINNA DA FONSECA-WOLLHEIM , THE NEW YORK TIMES (read article) Imagine sitting with your eyes closed, your body still, your awareness heightened as you follow simple, gentle, meditation instruction. And then, as you take a breath, music performed by a world-class musician fills your focus… Our internationally-acclaimed Music Meditation program, launched in 2015, is a collaboration with the Princeton University Office of Religious Life. Encompassing live events, virtual listening sessions, and a new podcast series, the program was created to facilitate poignant, focused listening experiences. All meditations are led by Matthew Weiner, Princeton University Associate Dean of Religious Life. Breathe In Music : Live Music Meditation Breathe In Music : WITH MATTHEW WEINER Follow guided meditation instruction as you listen to live music more viscerally than ever before. “I felt like the music was coming from inside of me…I was the music,” shared one participant. No prior experience is necessary. Past musicians include vocalist Bobby McFerrin, pianist Brad Mehldau, clarinetist Martin Fröst, and many more. Breathe In Music: Together Breathe In Music: VIRTUAL COMMUNAL LISTENING Enjoy a communal music meditation experience from the comfort of your home, followed by a live conversation about the experience with the participating musician(s), meditation instructor, and fellow participants. Upcoming dates TBA. Breathe In Music : Outdoors! Breathe In Music : Breathe in sound and silence through guided meditation as you listen to music more viscerally than ever before, feeling its vibrations slowly fade into the splendor of nature. We invite you to experience our popular Breathe in Music program in a new outdoor format, combining meditation instruction by Matthew Weiner, Associate Dean in the Office of Religious Life, with live music performed by the next generation of classical music stars.
