Online Undergraduate-Level Course Wellness for Artists: Music, Movement, and Mindfulness Authored by Jennifer Caraluzzi Course Code: OLSOC-100 As artists, we are constantly using our mental and physical abilities to communicate our artistry. In order to have a sustainable, successful, and joyful career, it is imperative to take exquisite care of our minds and bodies. Through the four pillars of wellness for artists: movement, mindfulness, nutrition, and sleep, you will build a strong foundation in understanding your own mind and body to better support a long and happy career in the arts. By exploring the mind-body connection, enhancing movement and body function, building healthy sleep and nutrition habits, and fostering supportive relationships and community, you’ll gain the tools to prevent injuries, stay present in your artistry, and navigate both emotional and physical challenges throughout your career. Through movement modalities like yoga, Alexander Technique, strength training, and intentional movement, you will learn how to efficiently move, stretch, and build muscle strength, as well as apply these concepts to your practice and performance. By taking a look at mindfulness techniques, meditation, breathwork, and the nervous system, you will learn how to manage performance anxiety and optimize practicing and performing through these techniques. Nutrition is also an important part of the equation and can be highly bio-individual with everyone having their own unique needs. It is valuable to develop an understanding of which foods are best for your mind, body, and soul. You will learn how to incorporate vital nutrients into your eating habits to build a healthy foundation to support your artistic career. The course will introduce concepts and practices of seasonal eating as well as food as fuel. Sleep is crucial to balancing and supporting a demanding performance and artistic career. Harvard Medical School notes that "People often overlook the potential long-term health consequences of insufficient sleep, and the impact that health problems can ultimately have on one's time and productivity." Recovery is an important facet of overall wellness and in this course you will learn healthy habits for both sleep and rest. Fostering healthy relationships and being part of a supportive community is essential for artists. The creative process can often be isolating, and having a network of meaningful connections can provide emotional support, inspiration, and collaboration opportunities. Healthy relationships encourage personal growth and constructive feedback, helping artists push their boundaries while feeling grounded and understood. A community also offers a sense of belonging, where shared experiences and challenges can be openly discussed, providing strength during difficult times. For artists, who often face unique pressures, a strong support system is invaluable for sustaining creativity, mental well-being, and long-term success. Throughout the course, you will build and strategize your own movement and mindfulness plan for your instrument and performance/practice. You will learn how to prioritize healthy routines in mindfulness, movement, sleep, and nutrition and carry these tools with you while traveling on tour, through changes in your career, and managing injury and/or illness. By the end of the course, you will be able to: discuss the science behind the nervous system and different movement modalities build healthy eating habits and routines by recognizing the value of nourishing the body, soul, and mind with healthy food choices develop mindfulness, movement, nutrition, and sleep routines with resources and practices to support a robust musical career and artistic purpose assemble daily and weekly practice and wellness schedules Syllabus Lesson 1: The Four Pillars of Wellness for Artists Movement Practice Exercise: Body Awareness Mindfulness Assignment 1.1: Performance Skills Self-Assessment Nutrition Sleep Practice Exercise: Sleep Awareness Introduction to Journaling Practice Exercise: Journaling Assignment 1.2: The Four Pillars of Wellness and You Lesson 2: Mindfulness – Breath Practice Practice Exercise: Your Own Daily Practice Breath Breath, Anatomy, and Body Mapping Breath as the Generator of Sound—Freeing Your Voice Introduction to a Simple Breath Practice—A Tool for Our Artistry Practice Exercise: Mia Olson’s 'Breath Meditation with Your Instrument' Advanced Breathing Techniques: Breath for Relaxation and Down Regulation Advanced Breathing Techniques: Breath for Focus and Energy Assignment 2: Breath Awareness Lesson 3: Movement – Yoga Practice Exercise: Your Own Daily Practice What Is Yoga and Why Is It Important for Artists? Practice Exercise: Mia Olson’s 'Eye Exercises' Beginning Your Yoga Practice Sustaining Your Yoga Practice Yoga Anywhere – Taking the Practice with You Assignment 3: Developing a Sustainable Practice Lesson 4: Mindfulness – Meditation Practice Exercise: Your Own Daily Practice What Is Meditation? Meditation Techniques and Styles How to Begin Your Meditation Practice as an Artist Practice Exercise: Buddha's Brain : ‘Exploring Your Refuges’ Integrating Meditation into Your Artist Routines Assignment 4: Exteroception and Interoception Lesson 5: Nutrition – A Holistic Approach Practice Exercise: Your Own Daily Practice Food and Nourishment: The Foundations of a Healthy Diet Workshop: Macronutrients and Micronutrients Understanding Your Body’s Needs Navigating Cravings Introduction to Ayurveda Practice Exercise: Discover Your Dosha Nutrition in Ayurveda Ayurveda in the Kitchen Nutrition on the Road: Ayurveda’s Tips Nutrition on a Budget Assignment 5: Planning Nutrition for Travel Lesson 6: Movement – Alexander Technique Practice Exercise: Your Own Daily Practice What Is Alexander Technique? Body Awareness and Intentional Movement Alignment and Anatomy in Alexander Technique Improving Posture and Balance in Life and Art Assignment 6: Integrating Alexander Technique into Your Practice Lesson 7: Movement – Strength Training Practice Exercise: Your Own Daily Practice Artists Are Athletes Strength Training for Artists The Foundation of Movement: Strength and Stability from the Ground Up Practice Exercise: Experience Subtalar Joint (STJ) Mobility Strength Training for Your Instrument Singer-Specific Strength Training Assignment 7: Strength-Training Exercise Lesson 8: Sleep – Rest and Recovery Practice Exercise: Your Own Daily Practice What Is Sleep? Circadian Rhythm Grounding or Earthing Why Is Sleep Important for Artists? Recovery and Rest Yoga Nidra – Meditation and Deep Rest Assignment 8: Self-Conducted Sleep Study Lesson 9: Primary Food – Supporting Your Individual Artistry Practice Exercise: Your Own Daily Practice Nourishment Beyond the Plate: The Primary Food Concept Listening to Your Own Needs Mindset, Intention, and Emotional Health for Artists Resources for Mental and Emotional Health Building and Fostering Your Community Sustaining Your Art: Financial Health for Creative Careers Assignment 9: Circle of Life Exercise Lesson 10: The Mind-Body Connection Practice Exercise: Your Own Daily Practice Understanding the Mind-Body Connection The Nervous System and Its Role in the Mind-Body Connection The Vagus Nerve Music Therapy Practical Strategies for Managing Stress Assignment 10: Strengthening Your Mind-Body Connection Lesson 11: What Is Wellness for Artists? Practice Exercise: Your Own Daily Practice What Is a Mindful Artist? Navigating Social Media as an Artist Managing Rejection Practice Exercise: The ‘Rejection Collection’ Mindfully Working Through Injury and Illness Assignment 11: Facing Adversity as Artists Lesson 12: Coordination of the Four Pillars Practice Exercise: Your Own Daily Practice Using the Four Pillars to Empower The Fifth Pillar - Community and Relationships Embracing Your Bio-Individuality Required Practice Exercise: Performance Skills Self-Assessment (Revisited) Putting It All Together – Artist Self-Care Assignment 12: Creating Your Own Wellness Routine Requirements Prerequisites and Course-Specific Requirements Prerequisite Courses, Knowledge, and/or Skills This course does not have any prerequisites. Textbook(s) Buddha's Brain: The Practical Neuroscience of Happiness, Love and Wisdom by Rick Hanson (New Harbinger Publications, 2009) The Mindful Musician: Mental Skills for Peak Performance by Vanessa Cornett (Oxford University Press, 2019) Musician's Yoga: A Guide to Practice, Performance, and Inspiration by Mia Olson (Berklee Press, 2009) Recommended: The Everyday Ayurveda Cookbook by Kate O’Donnell (Shambhala, 2015) Recommended: Breath: The New Science of a Lost Art by James Nestor (Riverhead/Penguin Random House, 2020) Recording Students are required to record video for their assignments. Options for recording video include: Smartphone Digital camera Webcam (using either video recording software, or the video recording tool that is built into the learning environment) Software Insight Timer meditation mobile app or web version (free) Sleep tracking app, such as Sleep Cycle or SleepScore Office suite, such as Microsoft Office, Google Drive (free), Apple iWork, Apache OpenOffice (free), etc. Other A yoga mat is required. In addition, the following accessories are recommended: Yoga blocks (2) Yoga straps (1) Yoga blanket Meditation pillow Paper or digital journal. Digital options include Google Keep, Penzu, Notes for Mac, Notepad for Windows, Evernote, etc. Digital calendar manager or paper planner. Digital options include Google Calendar, Bordio, etc. Student Deals After enrolling, be sure to check out our Student Deals page for various offers on software, hardware, and more. Please contact support@online.berklee.edu with any questions. General Course Requirements Below are the minimum requirements to access the course environment and participate in Live Classes. Please make sure to also check the Prerequisites and Course-Specific Requirements section above, and ensure your computer meets or exceeds the minimum system requirements for all software needed for your course. Mac Users PC Users All Users Latest version of Google Chrome Zoom meeting software Webcam Speakers or headphones External or internal microphone Broadband Internet connection Instructors Author & Instructor Jennifer Caraluzzi is a versatile vocalist, educator, and health and wellness professional. As a performer, she is an award-winning vocalist who has appeared with Opera Theatre St. Louis, White Snake Projects, Boston Opera Collaborative, and regularly sings with the Boston Pops. Known for her versatility across musical genres, Caraluzzi has sung the roles of Laurie in Oklahoma , Marty in Grease , Eliza in My Fair Lady , as well as standard operatic favorites like Cunegonde in Candide , Susanna in Le Nozze di Figaro , Zerlina in Don Giovanni , and more. Caraluzzi is featured in the title role on the critically acclaimed recording of Seymor Barab’s children’s opera, Little Red Riding Hood on Centaur Records. Passionate about the interconnectedness of wellness and artistic expression, Caraluzzi is certified through the Institute for Integrative Health as an Integrative Nutrition Health Coach. She is also a 500-hour certified yoga instructor, dedicated to educating musicians on the importance of mind/body awareness and taking care of their whole instrument. With more than 15 years experience teaching and coaching musicians in voice, wellness, and career development, Caraluzzi says she believes one’s artistry can be fully expressed through practicing healthy habits in movement, mindfulness, nutrition, and sleep, as well as fostering healthy relationships and being part of a community. Through her own journey with several orthopedic injuries and chronic conditions, she has shaped her own artistry, becoming the artist she is today by practicing these four pillars of wellness. Caraluzzi holds a joint MBA in Music Business from Berklee College of Music and Southern New Hampshire University, and a Master of Music in Vocal Performance from New England Conservatory. She has worked for Berklee College of Music since 2019 and Berklee Online since 2021, and currently is the Director of Academic Operations and Student Success at Berklee NYC. Visit her online at jennifercaraluzzi.com. Read Less Instructor Christopher Stanley is an accomplished musician, audio producer, and certified global Yoga and meditation leader with a deep commitment to integrating music and mindfulness. Operating out of New York City, Christopher brings over 20 years of experience to his diverse professional roles, blending artistry with wellness to create transformative experiences. As a performer, Christopher has collaborated with a range of award-winning artists, including Donnie McCaslin, Marvin Stamm, Kenny Garrett, Delfeayo Marsalis, Terence Blanchard, and Lalah Hathaway. His dynamic musical career spans genres and settings, from intimate performances to large-scale productions, showcasing his versatility and expertise. A dedicated yoga practitioner for more than two decades, Christopher’s teaching journey began after earning his 200-hour certification from Honor Yoga in 2019. He further advanced his credentials by completing a 300-hour certification at Y7 Studio in 2023, earning him the title of E-RYT 500. As a yoga teacher, he expertly weaves elements of mindfulness, movement, and breathwork into his sessions, creating holistic experiences for students worldwide. Christopher is an active educator and clinician, frequently leading workshops, classes, and seminars both in New York City and across the nation. He is a music educator for BD Performing Arts and Conn-Selmer, a founding instructor of Yoga for Y7 Online, and a key contributor to Berklee Online's “Wellness for Artists: Music, Movement, and Mindfulness” program. In these roles, he empowers musicians and artists to cultivate well-being through the integration of music, yoga, and mindfulness practices. He holds a Bachelor's degree in Music Performance from Morehouse College (2011) and a Master's degree in Studio Production from the University of Central Oklahoma (2013). Christopher’s extensive background in both music and wellness allows him to uniquely bridge the worlds of sound and self-care, offering a holistic approach to both artistic and personal growth. Read Less What's Next? When taken for credit, Wellness for Artists: Music, Movement, and Mindfulness can be applied towards the completion of these related programs: Related Certificate Programs Questions? Contact our Academic Advisors by phone at 1-866-BERKLEE (U.S.), 1-617-747-2146 (INT'L), or by email at advisors@online.berklee.edu.
