ACRA Applauds Introduction of Two New Federal Vehicle Data Privacy Bills as a Major Win for Fleets and Consumers Dec 17, 2025 | News, Policy The bills would restore vehicle owners’ control over their personal data and give them the freedom to choose who it’s shared with and how it’s used. December 17, 2025 – The American Car Rental Association (ACRA) applauds the introduction of two landmark federal... November 2025 Legal Brief Nov 28, 2025 | ACRA News, Federal Laws, Inside Track, Legislation, News ACRA Meets with Secretary of TransportationACRA leadership recently met with U.S. Secretary of Transportation Sean Duffy to discuss key industry priorities and reinforce the vital role our members play in keeping America moving. The U.S. Department of Transportation... Restricted content Nov 28, 2025 | ACRA News, Legislation, News Access to this content requires an active ACRA membership. September 2025 Legal Brief Oct 1, 2025 | Inside Track Global Trade U.S.–EU Finalize Tariff Deal; J.P. Morgan Sees $41 Billion First-Year Impact On August 28, 2025, the United States and the European Union formally executed the verbal agreement reached in Scotland in late July between President Donald Trump and European... ACRA 2025 Performance and Policy Conference Photo Gallery Oct 1, 2025 | ACRA News, Conference, Photo Gallery Educational Panels at the ACRA DC eventEducational Panels at the ACRA DC event Educational Panels at the ACRA DC eventEducational Panels at the ACRA DC event Educational Panels at the ACRA DC eventEducational Panels at the ACRA DC event Educational Panels at the ACRA... ACRA Urges Congress to Pass Continuing Resolution to Prevent Travel Disruptions Sep 30, 2025 | ACRA News, News, Policy FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 30, 2025 Washington, D.C. — The American Car Rental Association (ACRA), representing the nation’s car rental industry, today urged congressional leaders to immediately pass a Continuing Resolution (CR) to keep the federal government open... Rental Car Tips 0011 – Why I Segment My Business Core into Operations, Fleet Management, Revenue & Sales, and Compliance Aug 1, 2025 | Car Rental Tips, Inside Track From the ACRA Newsletter Editor: Carlos A. Bazan Carlos has ample experience operating peer to peer and traditional, independent car rental companies, including neighborhood locations and airport facilities. Carlos has owned car rental operations in the San Diego, Los... Guest Column: Compliance at Scale: Eliminating Toll & Traffic Violation Risks in Rental Operations Aug 1, 2025 | Guest Column, Inside Track Meet the author: Taarini Singhal and Simon Algelt Taarini and Simon combine marketing and operations expertise to support Tollaid’s growth. Their focus on communication, customer engagement, and streamlined systems helps position the company as both customer-focused... Guest Column: The Software-Defined Revolution: Reshaping Connected Mobility and Transforming the Car Rental Landscape Aug 1, 2025 | Guest Column, Inside Track Meet the author: Philipp Gauss Philipp is Vice President and Head of Sales Connected Fleet Solutions, Bosch North America. The opinions expressed in this article are only those of the author and not necessarily those of ACRA. The opinions expressed in this article are... Rental Car Tips 0010 – Why I visualize my Customer Journey and how I act upon each stage Jul 11, 2025 | Car Rental Tips, Inside Track From the ACRA Newsletter Editor: Carlos A. Bazan Carlos has ample experience operating peer to peer and traditional, independent car rental companies, including neighborhood locations and airport facilities. Carlos has owned car rental operations in the San Diego, Los...
