Editor’s Note, December 19, 2025: We’ve added shoes from our winter guide and checked on inventory to make sure you can stock up over the holiday season. Our Best Trail pick, the Brooks Caldera 8, is also currently on sale with 20% off. Shopping for a pair of running shoes can be a daunting task. At Runner’s World , we test hundreds of shoes a year, picking the best pairs to include in our annual RW Shoe Awards. In this list, we compile the best shoes, updating it every so often so you can stay in the know about the hottest releases and the trainers we’re still running in well past their testing cycle (that’s how great they are). We’re also included models in our Winter Shoe Guide, which features the latest releases our staff and local testers gave high marks. From road to trail, cushioned to lightweight, neutral to stability, all the shoes listed here we deem the best that are available right now. With the help of Runner-in-Chief Jeff Dengate, who has tested running gear for almost two decades, and myself, a 13 times consecutive Boston Marathon finisher, we’ve logged thousands of miles during our tenure at Runner’s World , witnessing the dawn of super shoes and the evolution of stability tech. Below are our top picks based on our own testing, staff insights, and wear-tester feedback. Best Running Shoes Best Overall: Adidas Adizero Evo SL (Men’s/Women’s) Best Value: Under Armour Sonic 7 (Men’s/Women’s) Best Daily Trainer: Brooks Ghost 17 (Men’s/Women’s) Best Supertrainer: Brooks Hyperion Max 3 (Men’s/Women’s Best Cushioned: Hoka Clifton 10 (Men’s/Women’s) Most Versatile: Asics Novablast 5 (Men’s/Women’s) How We Selected At Runner’s World , we’ve tested gear since 1966. Our experts are diehard runners like you, putting in the mileage to evaluate products every run, every day. We also have a team of 300+ local wear-testers who log at least 100 miles in every shoe and provide valuable feedback to help us determine the best of the bunch. These runners of various experience levels, gait patterns, ages, and arch types make our testing all-inclusive. We’ve grouped shoes into three categories—training, racing, trail—to help you pick and choose which pairs fit your running lifestyle. Our staff and local wear testers based these selections on fit, feel, and ride. We’ve also included links to earlier iterations that are now at discounted prices. Please note: While we’re experts at vetting the best footwear, buying shoes on these sites is at reader’s discretion. We update these links on a regularly basis, but prices fluctuate every day and shoes sell out fast. We’ll do our best to check on these links for any changes as the year moves forward. For Exclusive Access to Product Testing Opportunities: Become a Runner’s World+ Member Full Reviews Best Training Shoes Jeff Dengate declared the Evo SL the best shoe of the year in February. And swore he’d eat it if something better came along. We’re confident Dengate won’t be dining on the Evo SL. The shoe’s foam is just one reason we think it shines — it’s the same foam Adidas uses in its marathon shoe, the Adios Pro 4: Lightstrike Pro. There’s no carbon-fiber plate, which makes the ride less aggressive, but there is a nylon shank in the midfoot for stability. This doesn’t mean the Evo SL is perfect. Some testers found the toebox slightly narrow, and the midfoot a bit wide, and wished the tongue wouldn’t go askew midrun. Despite these drawbacks, our testers loved the Evo SL for its springy ride and versatility. “I liked that it was lightweight without compromising on cushion,” said wear-tester Eileen Cody. “It was also an incredibly versatile shoe. I liked that it had that daily trainer feel and elements of a racing shoe, but without the hard carbon plate that is found in other super trainers. I felt like my stride was efficient without seemingly letting the shoe do too much work.” Shop Men's at adidas.com Shop Women's at adidas.com The entry-level Sonic 7 caters to vets as well looking for a low-budget trainer for eating everyday miles. Under Armour removed “Hovr” from it’s name, but the midsole is still riddled with Hovr foam, only it’s softer and lighter. Another big change is that Under Armour wanted the Sonic 7 to look sportier than its predecessors. The shoe has a modern, cleaner look with fewer cutouts. The stack height is also a low 26mm in the heel, proving it’s still possible to have a comfy shoe that doesn’t tower over 40mm. “This shoe is a budget shoe, but doesn’t feel like a low-end shoe,” said tester Shayne Murray. “It hugs the foot in the right places, is comfortable, and feels a little plush. Running in them you even get a little bounce.” Our testers favored the shoe for speed days and even racing. But wide-foot runners should take note that the Sonic 7 has a slightly narrower fit. “I think the shoe runs a little small,” said Murray. “This was not a problem for me, but I do feel there are some wearers who will have to go up a half size.” Shop Men’s at UnderArmour.com Shop Women’s at UnderArmour.com →Discounted Under Armour Sonic 6: Available at Amazon for as low as 40 percent off, select sizes and colors. Men’s / Women’s What makes the Ghost a Best Running Shoe mainstay is its Goldilocks comfort, especially for new runners unsure of where to start when it comes to shoe shopping. The shoe has a soft DNA Loft v3 midsole, the same cushioning used in Brooks’s plush Glycerin 21 and Glycerin GTS 21. “Like walking on clouds,” said tester Leslie Billowitch. “The shoe is very lightweight, snug, and comfortable.” The Ghost 17 is updated with even more foam. The Brooks team added 1mm of DNA Loft v3 to the heel and 3mm to the forefoot, positioning the drop at 10mm (the offset was previously 12mm). This was a big win for forefoot strikers who desired more support on their run. “There was a nice smooth transition from the landing phase to push-off,” said another tester. “This shoe had the utmost comfort.” Shop Men’s at brooksrunning.com Shop Women’s at Brooksrunning.com → Discounted Brooks Ghost 16: Available at Amazon for as low as 29 percent off, select sizes and colors. Men’s / Women’s The Hyperion Max 3 isn’t legal for racing (World Athletics 40mm or lower guidelines definitely exclude a trainer as high as 46mm in the heel), but we understand the temptation to wear it at your local 5K. The shoe has a DNA Flash v2 and PEBA-based DNA Gold dual midsole that sandwiches a SpeedVault plate. The plate is a nylon/fiberglass blend that’s more pliable than carbon fiber, making the shoe more inclusive. (The stiffness of carbon fiber can hinder runners with a weaker stride.) Its knit upper is also a draw. Not so long ago, I shunned knit uppers on the likes of Brooks’s now-discontinued Levitate and Bedlam. But knit uppers aren’t anything like they were in the past. The Hyperion Max 3 is cozy and secure, with no heel rubbing or pressure on the instep. “The Brooks Hyperion Max 3 was by far my favorite RW test shoe,” said tester Jeff Dreschler. “I ran every single road mile in them since the day I got them. From the onset, they just felt ‘right.’ They felt like a supertrainer without the minimalism that a lot of supertrainers carry over from their super shoe brethren. The rocker, the snappy response, the copious amounts of cushioning, albeit firm. Everything was spot on.” Shop Men’s at brooksrunning.com Shop Women’s at brooksrunning.com → Discounted Brooks Hyperion Max 2: Available at Amazon for as low as 34 percent off, select sizes and colors. Men’s / Women’s The Clifton 10—or ClifTEN as the Hoka shoe team calls it—is the best Clifton yet. The shoe has a new last (the foot-shaped form that molds the shoe) that makes the fit more accommodating with an extended toebox and additional room over the instep. It’s cushier too; the heel has a 3mm stack increase, making the formerly 5mm offset now 8mm. Hoka told me at The Running Event that the additional height helps keep the Achilles safe. The EVA midsole is also tuned to be more comfortable. Think of the Clifton 10 as your plush workhorse for racking up weekly mileage and padding hours of time on the pavement when you’re logging double digits in your training plan. The heel area feels like you’re sitting your foot in a comfy easy chair and the midfoot cushioning lends plenty of support. In other words: heel and midfoot strikers alike will appreciate what the Clifton 10 has to offer. “The firm but ample cushioning hits the sweet spot for me,” said Jeff Dengate. “I like to have some cush underfoot, but in an age where everything has gotten bloated and pillowy, it’s nice to have a shoe that is resilient and gives you snappy feedback, but still delivers protection from the sidewalks.” Shop Men’s at hoka.com Shop Women’s at hoka.com Known for its springy ride that expresses quintessential fun run, the Novablast is updated with FF Blast Max foam, making it lighter, softer, and even more comfortable. With 41.5mm of foam under the heel (40.5mm women), you’d think a bouncy trainer at such a stack height would scream unstable. But we found its ride isn’t overly soft and squishy. We loved pushing the pace and holding back on easy days. Its only flaw? Our testers point to its outsole. “It does not have the best traction over different surfaces and rounding some turns,” said shoe tester Greg Jaindl. “[I found] it does not do well in the ice, snow, and wet conditions. Although you can manage, you are bound to have a few steps where you slide a bit.” Shop Men’s at Asics.com Shop Women’s at Asics.com You forget you’re running in a stability shoe when you wear the ForeverRun Nitro 2. That’s because Puma’s approach was to develop a shoe that doesn’t specific stop overpronation. The holistic tech involves TPU wrapped along the outsole of the heel, which is intended to merely slow down pronation—without slowing down your pace. “This is a solid stability shoe, and it provides adequate support and cushioning for longer runs,” said a tester. The shoe has a broader midfoot, which provides support on the medial side. Testers appreciated the midsole foam’s springy ride and how it absorbed impact. ”The cushioning helped me push through higher mileage without experiencing pounding on my knees,” said a tester. “It aided in my recovery, allowing me to feel fresher for upcoming workouts.” Shop Men’s at Puma.com Shop Women’s at Puma.com The Bondi 9 defines a Hoka shoe. It has a cozy interior and a foamy midsole. Because the Bondi 8 came out three years ago, we expected a major update—and Hoka delivered. The Bondi 9 has reached new heights with a 10mm thicker stack height (the men’s Bondi 8 was a 33mm in the heel). The Hoka team tampered down its “billowiness” by giving the shoe a sleeker, more refined look. Because Hoka added higher sidewalls for a more secure fit, Bondi 9 fits tighter on wide feet compared to past models. Testers liked running long in the shoe and using it as a daly trainer. They wanted a thinner tongue and wider midfoot, but that didn’t make the Bondi 9 lose favor. Some testers were finally won over by the latest iteration, including tester John Mikovits: “Hoka has been hit-or-miss for me but the Bondi, in general, has been a chunky miss. This Bondi 9 has broken the streak of disdain.” Shop Men’s at Hoka.com Shop Women’s at Hoka.com Best Racing Shoes The Adios Pro 4 is the best of both worlds, taking what we liked from past Pro models and combining it from learnings developing the Adizero Adios Pro Evo 1. The shoe has improved Lightstrike Pro foam that’s even comfier and lighter. “I compare it most to the Nike Alphafly, not because of its weight or size but because of the very soft, marshmallowy feel of the cushioning underfoot,” said shoe tester Trevor Conde, who sports a 2:21 marathon PR. We liked the shoe for racing and race training because of its plush midsole that helped keep our legs fresh during heavy base building. “Every step or push-off you can feel how much that shoes absorbs your foot and then springs it forward,” said tester Mike Browne. “You barely even notice that your heel is hitting the ground as much as it is. The design of the shoes seems to force that rollover quickly, spending less time on your heels.” Shop Men’s at Adidas.com Shop Women’s at Adidas.com At 6 ounces, men’s 9, the Metaspeed Edge Tokyo is a remarkably lightweight carbon-fiber plated racer, but the ride isn’t as volatile or unstable as other super shoes’ in its category. The Metaspeed Edge Tokyo is the designated cadence runner racing shoe, intended for runners who race with shorter strides. It contrasts with its fraternal twin, the Metaspeed Sky Tokyo, which is meant for stride runners, or those with a longer stride. The difference lies in the orientation of the plate in the forefoot. The positioning of the plate dips lower in the Edge, whereas the Sky’s plate positioning is more equidistant between foams. I’m favoring the Metaspeed Edge here due to personal experience—it was my shoe of choice for the Sydney Marathon, which had me race faster than originally planned—and because our testers love it too. “I think that the Metaspeeds are my all time favorite super shoe,” said tester Anthony Calantoni. “I have worn over 10 different pairs at this point and still find these to be the best feeling all around. They have definitely made improvements from the first edition which feel great.” One such improvement: a new top layer of bouncier Leap foam. Despite being a tourist and walking 20K+ steps everyday leading up to the Sydney Marathon, I felt energized on race day. The Metaspeed Edge Tokyo was a major player in my experience. Shop Men’s at asics.com Shop Women’s at asics.com Best Trail Shoes Built for high mileage with a 38.5mm stack height, the Caldera 8 is Brooks’s ultra trail shoe. To ensure stability with all of that foam, Brooks raised the sidewalls for a more secure fit and broadened the base for more stability. “This shoe has the comfort, support, and stability to gobble up tons of miles, and the traction to do so without wearing down in tough conditions,” said a tester. The Caldera 8 has a nitrogen-infused DNA Loft v3 midsole, which is the same foam used in the Glycerin 21 and Ghost 17. It provides a plush but firm ride with 4mm lugs on the outsole for handling rugged terrain. “What I liked most is the fit, protection and lacing,” said tester Jonathan Zsigovits, who trains at 8:30 pace. “I felt secure running on a variety of surfaces, the toebox felt roomy but not to the point where I would slide around in the shoe. In addition, I felt confident with the grip it provided both on inclines and declines and when transitioning from gravel to road to grass.” Shop Men’s at brooksrunning.com Shoe Women’s at brooksrunning.com The Wildfeel uses a dual-density supercritical foam midsole; the heel is cushier to absorb shock, while the firmer forefoot promotes a responsive toe-off. The outsole has 4mm lugs, which have an ascending/descending orientation for traction on uneven terrain. The rubber wraps up above the toe to serve as a buffer from rocks and roots. Testers liked the versatility of the Wildfeel, finding it transitioned smoothly from road to trail. “I loved the literal and physical flexibility of the Wildfeel!” said tester Jenny Stump. “I am primarily a road runner. These felt comfortable enough that I could do some easy miles on the road as well as tackle some trails with uneven surfaces. All the trail shoes I have previously tried felt more stiff and had such a thick sole that I wouldn’t even want to warmup on the road with them. I like the depth of the tread. It’s enough that I feel secure on slick and uneven surfaces but not too heavy or rigid that my foot isn’t able to flex in the shoe.” Stump suggested the shoes are ideal for long runs and road/trail days. Shop Men’s at lululemon.com Shop Women’s at lululemon.com What to Consider How to Choose the Best Running Shoes FAQs Amanda Furrer, Editor, Running Reviews, studied journalism at NYU and writing at Emerson College. She has reviewed gear and covered other topics in the running space for almost 10 years. Since 2013, she has consecutively run the Boston Marathon. She also has a master’s degree in gastronomy from Boston University and was formerly a professional baker for two years before hanging up her apron.
