Magazine Current Issue Current Issue Mail slow? View this month’s issue, right online! View all Digital Edition Digital Edition Our digital version is easy to share with colleagues. See this month’s issue and digital versions of previous issues too. View all Subscribe Now Exclusives Happi Talks Happi Talks A one-on-one interview conducted by our editorial team with industry leaders in our market. View all Breaking News People People Discover the newest promotions and collaborations within the industry. View all Features Exclusives Expert's Opinion Infographics Infographics Easy-to-digest data for your business. View all Slideshows Formulary Hair Care Hair Care Shampoos, conditioners, colorants and styling products created by leading industry suppliers. View all Skin Care Skin Care Creams, serums, facial cleansers and more created by leading suppliers to the skincare industry. View all Fabric Care Fabric Care Detergents, fabric softeners and more created by leading suppliers to the fabric care industry. View all Color Cosmetics Color Cosmetics Eyeshadows, lipsticks, foundations and more created by leading suppliers to the color cosmetics industry. View all Personal Cleansers Personal Cleansers Bodywashes, and bar and liquid soaps created by leading suppliers to the personal cleanser industry. View all Home Care-I&I Home Care-I&I Hard surface cleaners, disinfectants and more created by leading suppliers to the home care industry. View all Fragrance Fragrance Eau de parfums and eau de toilettes, body sprays, mists and more created by leading suppliers to the fragrance industry. View all Sun Care Sun Care UV lotions and creams, self-tanners and after-sun products created by leading suppliers to the suncare industry. View all Top Companies Top 50 U.S. Companies Top 50 U.S. Companies A detailed look at the leading US players in the global household and personal products industry. View all Top 30 International Companies Top 30 International Companies A detailed look at the leading players outside the US in the global household and personal products industry. View all Directories Buyers' Guide Buyers' Guide Looking for a new raw material or packaging component supplier? Your search starts here. View all Contract Manufacturing / Private Label Contract Manufacturing / Private Label When you need a new manufacturing partner or private label company, get started here. View all Add a Company Brand Directory Brand Directory Who owns that? To keep track of leading brands and their owners, click here. View all Corporate Profiles Corporate Profiles An annual publication, Company Profiles features leading industry suppliers with information about markets served, products, technologies and services for beauty, pesonal care and home care. View all Glossary Multimedia Videos Videos New products and technologies from some of the brightest minds in the industry. View all VideoBites VideoBites A one-on-one video interview between our editorial teams and industry leaders. View all Podcast Podcast Listen to the leading experts in the global household and personal products industry. View all Library eBooks eBooks Comprehensive coverage of key topics selected by sponsors. View all Whitepapers Whitepapers Detailed research on novel ingredients and other solutions for the global household and personal care industry. View all Brochures Brochures Company experts explain what works and why. View all Sponsored Content Sponsored Content Exclusive content created by our affiliates and partners for the household and personal care industry. View all News Releases News Releases Exciting news releases from the household and personal care industry. View all Events Events Webinars Webinars Our targeted webinars provide relevant market information in an interactive format to audiences around the globe. View all Live From Show Live From Show Discover exclusive live streams and updates from the hottest events and shows. View all Jobs Jobs Looking for a job in the household and personal care industry, search no further. View all About Us Advertise with Us Advertise with Us Get your products and services in front of thousands of decision-makers. View our print and online advertising options. View all Editorial Guidelines Editorial Guidelines Follow these steps to get your article published in print or online View all Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions
