Our movers are ready to get you to your new home - get a quote online or over the phone today! Reliable, low-cost moving company in San Francisco, CA Let us take the anxiety out of your moving experience. Whether you’re planning a local, long distance, or labor-only move, Bellhop’s got your back with transparent pricing, packing and storage services, and professional movers in San Francisco you can trust. It's important to trust your moving company when they're getting you to your new home. Our background checked local movers and experienced moving concierge team are ready to earn your trust. We've built a moving company to provide transparent pricing, 24/7 service, and accountable, trustworthy movers. Our simple rates and prorated pricing system for moving services mean that you won't be surprised by your moving costs, even if it's a last-minute, long-distance, or interstate move. Plus, you can get a free moving quote online or over the phone in just minutes—no home walk-through required! Our background-checked local movers are some of the highest rated movers in the moving industry. And when you book with Bellhop, you'll get photos of your moving team of San Francisco movers in advance so you're greeted by familiar faces on move day. We have the best movers in San Francisco and we're eager to prove it to you. Our movers in San Francisco, CA are flexible, because your peace of mind is our highest priority. If you need to reschedule, or if your moving needs change, simply log onto your dashboard or give us a call to adjust your move. We can help with any type of move, even providing last-minute movers for when plans change. We also offer packing supplies and packing and unpacking services. Bellhop was named a Best Mover of 2022 and 2023 by U.S. News & World Report , based on criteria including services offered, cost, licensing, customer satisfaction, and probability of being on time. The independent evaluation, which analyzed an initial pool of more than 30 moving businesses, ranked Bellhop at #2 overall. (And yes, we have our sights trained on that #1 spot! But for now, we're pleased to be recognized along with some of the largest and most established movers in the moving industry) 300K+ Moves completed 20K+ Customer reviews 4.8★ Average rating Booking a move online was so easy and the team was extremely professional the entire move. Getting my large table up a tight set of stairs made me nervous but they had the expertise to get it around corners and up safely without a scratch! — Harrison S., San Francisco California Not all moves are the same, and at Bellhop, we have a variety of moving services that will help you get your life or your office to its new destination. For more information on each type of service we provide check out: Get matched with the most qualified team of movers with years of experience to move you into a new house or apartment in the San Francisco area. Bellhop has you covered with friendly, hardworking local San Francisco movers, a truck with a professional driver, plus dollies, blankets, and straps. If it's a last-minute move, we'll do everything we can to make sure your next move goes smoothly. Whether you’re moving from an apartment into a new home within the city, or moving across the country, a member of our concierge team will help you build a customized plan for moving from San Francisco to your next home. We work with the best local movers in San Francisco to eliminate travel costs, and provide dedicated, sealed trucks to ensure the safe passage of your belongings, for homeowners, renters, and everyone in between. If you don’t need transportation but could use some moving help, Bellhop’s skilled San Francisco movers make quick work of loading, unloading, and/or rearranging. We can help you pack a storage unit into a truck, move your furniture into your home, or any other form of hourly moving help or relocation service. Get a free quote today! Booking your move to or from San Francisco is easy and quick. Tell us what you need and your move date—either online or over the phone—and we'll tailor your moving services and match you with the best Bellhop local movers near you. Getting a moving estimate and starting your moving process is simple and easy, with no hidden fees. Whether it's a door to door move, a storage facility move, or cross country moving, our moving company will take great care with your valuables. You're not hiring movers because you want a surprise on moving day. Unlike other local San Francisco moving companies, prior to your move you'll receive an introduction with a photograph of each mover so that you’re greeted by familiar faces on the big day. When your move is complete, you’ll have an opportunity to share feedback on your local moving services, ensuring accountability (and minimum hassle) from start to finish. Your lead San Francisco mover will get in touch on the day of your service to let you know your moving team is on the way. Your moving service will officially begin when your movers arrive and scan your unique QR code, which you’ll receive prior to your move. They’ll also scan the QR code to mark the end of your move at your new location, so you don’t pay for a minute more than the time needed to complete the job. Thinking about a long-distance move in San Francisco, or a last-minute San Francisco move? It's just as easy. "Jo, Francis, and Brian were great! They were friendly and got the job done in a timely manner." - John V., reviewing our Los Angeles moving team (1/16/2025) Life is complicated enough, so let’s keep things simple: You can cancel your move in San Francisco free of charge up to 72 hours before your reservation date. If you cancel within 72 hours of your reservation date, you will forfeit your previously collected 10% deposit and be charged a $200 late cancellation fee. We need to do this in order to make sure our movers are covered, and so we can help other customers. Booking a last-minute move? If your move is booked under three days out, we'll only charge you the deposit and cancellation fee if we've assigned a team to you prior to your cancellation. Easy enough, right? Industry-leading Support and Years of Experience in the Moving Industry Whether you're moving across town or across the country, we'll get there together. All Bellhop customers receive transparent pricing, flexible service options, background-checked movers, the moving industry's best customer support, and an easy-to-access online dashboard. "My movers Kendrick and Mark were awesome! They were polite and moved everything so quickly. They handled each item with care and wrapped furniture very nicely. Couldn’t be more pleased with my move! Well worth the money." Need help getting your belongings packed before your move? Get a free quote for packing services in San Francisco. Bellhop's full-service movers know how to pack your things safely and efficiently, saving you not only time, but space in your moving truck. Our professional packers can make your home move-ready in a matter of hours. You can get packing supplies through us (such as boxes), and we'll handle the rest to help make your move as stress-free as possible. We're available for commercial packing, too. Let us handle the packing and moving so you can kick back and relax. Ian and Hussein were super efficient and amazing at getting all our stuff packed up. Bellhop has been great to work with. Overall, great experience! - Summer, reviewing our Raleigh packers and movers Have a lot of unwanted belongings you need to get rid of before you move? Ending a contract with a storage service, and need to get it cleaned out? Getting unneccessary junk cleared away is an important first step as you begin your moving process. Being packed up and ready means your moving day will be quicker and cheaper. Need some help? We work with local San Francisco junk removal services that can take care of your junk disposal needs, whether it's a cluttered basement, appliances that need to be recycled, or a storage unit that has to be emptied. According to Bellhop data: In 2022 the average cost of a move was $560 in San Francisco. According to Bellhop data: In 2022 the average cost to move into an apartment was $530. According to Bellhop data, local moves in San Francisco took hours on average in 2022. According to Bellhop data: Most local moves in San Francisco need 3 movers on average, plus a truck and a driver. Now it’s your move. We understand that every move is unique, which is why we built a moving company with the ability to tailor our services to best fit your needs. Not sure where to begin? Let us help you unpack your options. 149 New Montgomery St., San Francisco, CA 94105 415-263-9024 US DOT #2878240 Mon-Sat 8:00 AM to 10:00 PM EST Sun 8:00 AM to 10:00 PM EST Bellhop is a federally regulated property broker that connects you with independent labor and/or transportation providers. For more information about our operations, please review our Terms of Service. Book movers online near you. Services Careers
