THE TRAVEL YOGI Travel Insurance Awesome. You’re ready to set out and absorb some beauty on and off your mat Now it’s time to ensure that if a hurdle pops up before you depart, or a delay or issue arises while you’re on the road, that you’re covered. The unknown can easily arise and, as we strictly adhere to our cancelation policies, travel insurance is highly recommended, and on some adventures, required. You can insure yourself through our recommendation, or any reputable company, but please do be sure to get coverage. Redpoint insurance is available at various levels, depending on the specific aspects of your trip, and designed for adventurous travelers of all ages. Coverage includes overseas medical, evacuation, baggage and a range of adventure travel activities, and can cover travelers of all ages. You can click here for an immediate quote and/or keep your eyes open for an email quote from us after you've booked. An ounce of prevention... you know how it goes... Travel Insurance FAQ's The short answer? YES. Here’s the deal, our office staff has used their insurance (no one at The Travel Yogi travels without insurance) to get full refunds when their kiddos have sprung a fever right before a business trip, when a nasty finger laceration happened demanded a trip cancellation and when a suitcase was lost en route to a yoga retreat adventure. We’ve go lots of success stories. Unfortunately we’ve got some sad ones too. When travelers have had to cancel last minute and didn’t have coverage or when a storm delayed a flight long enough to miss a connection (you ever tried getting the airlines to pay up with an airport full of angry travelers?). We believe in the benefits of travel insurance enough to strongly, strongly urge you to please cover the investment you just made in yourself by covering your soon-to-be most amazing and best yoga retreat ever! COVID has certainly brought travel insurance to the forefront of travelers’ minds in 2020. While a policy will not cover you for closed borders or event cancellations due to COVID, there are many benefits to obtaining a policy. Please contact Redpoint with specific policy coverage questions. Redpoint is backed by a suite of strong, secure, specialist travel insurers who provide you with great cover, 24 hour emergency assistance and the highest levels of support and claims management when you need it most. You can but please remember that that only covers your flight, not your trip. Travel insurance purchased here covers you from the date of coverage through to the day your trip ends. You don’t have to but it’s highly recommended. The best coverage is offered if you purchase your policy within 14 days of booking your adventure. Insurance only covers issues that arise after you purchase coverage. These guys have your back and they go the extra mile with 24hr service on all policies and the following good stuff: Evacuation & rescue services from your location to the hospital of your choice High-end travel protection coverage such as primary medical expense coverage, trip cancellation/interruption and more Should an issue arise on the road you can file a claim online while traveling with Redpoint. Peace.Of.Mind.
