Yoga travel insurance Taking the time on holiday for a bit of relaxing yoga can be all you need to find your place of zen. With hundreds of talented yoga teachers setting up shop in some of the world’s most scenic and beautiful places, it’s an incredible time to get out of the cramped city studio and strike a pose in nature. Whether it’s your first session in a yoga class or you’re keeping in touch with your perfect headstand, it’ll bring you peace of mind to know that your yoga travel insurance won’t be something to worry about – it’s covered as standard under all our policies. In fact, our travel insurance policies all come with automatic cover for over 50 sports and activities including insurance for fishing and even basic scuba diving! As always terms and conditions apply, so check the policy wording for full details of these and the other activities we cover. Why do you need travel insurance for yoga? Just like any other activity yoga comes with an element of risk. If you accidentally overextend, or try a position perhaps best practiced after more guidance, you may find you require some medical assistance. It’s important to think about having a travel insurance policy that will cover you in the event of an accident or injury. We’ll have you covered! What is included with yoga insurance? As yoga falls under all our policies as one of 50 amazing adventure sports and activities covered as standard, you’ll be able to find your happy place knowing that you’re covered for: Medical expenses and hospital benefit Personal accident and liability Cancelling and cutting short your holiday Abandoning your trip Delayed departure Accommodation cover Personal belongings and baggage Personal money, passport and travel documents Legal expenses Don’t worry – if you’re planning to spend your entire trip doing yoga, you’ll be covered by any of our policies. Yoga safety tips Yoga is best enjoyed slowly and in touch with your body; remember a few simple tips and ensure you’re always on form whilst on holiday. Listen to your body and don’t feel under pressure to try a more difficult pose if it has a physical risk. Always use proper yoga gear – the wrong mat could slip beneath your feet. Choose the right travel insurance policy for you, get a quote online or read our policy documents for more information on our travel insurance that includes cover for yoga. Please note: ‘Yoga travel insurance’ is a general term for cover included within our standard travel insurance. We don’t offer specialist insurance cover for this specific activity.
