I get asked about yoga retreat travel insurance A TON! Even if your yoga retreat host doesn’t require retreat travel insurance I recommend that you purchase a basic policy. For the majority of my retreats I require travel insurance for my participants and that is simply to protect all parties involved. Travel insurance, depending on your plan, can help cover your expenses if you get delayed, your baggage is lost, you end up in the hospital, or you need to cancel due to a family emergency. It’s a crucial part of trip planning… especially when investing in a weeklong yoga retreat. Here are a few yoga retreat travel insurance companies to get you moving in the right direction. As far as I know there aren’t any companies that specifically focus on travel insurance for yoga retreats, but the following are all reliable companies that will protect you should you need coverage for your next yoga retreat. John Lewis – UK based. Easy to book online. Also has multitrip coverage. Sweet! World Nomads – Multiple countries. Easy to get a quote online with easy to use comparison table to book the right insurance for you. Recommended by Lonely Planet. Travel Guard– One of the larger travel insurance providers, but their website was a little clunky to use. Insuremytrip.com and Squaremouth.com are great resources for comparing multiple options. There are so many travel insurance options on the market. It’s important to do your research and pick the best one for you. It is also important to book your yoga retreat travel insurance as soon as you have your retreat and your flight booked. Most travel insurance options have a time limit between purchase of your travel and purchase of your travel insurance… sometimes it’s only two weeks. Depending on the cost of your trip and the coverage you need/want you can expect to pay anywhere from $40-200… I’m sure there are probably some higher and some lower. Most travel insurance packages seem to be under $100 per person, not too bad for a little peace of mind. See you on retreat! Love and Light, Autumn The Ultimate Guide to Surviving (and Thriving) on a Long-Haul Flight ✈️ - December 8, 2025 Top Women’s Yoga Retreats in Oregon for 2026 - November 27, 2025 What to Bring for a Yoga Retreat in Patagonia: Your Complete Packing Guide for Tawa Refugio (or Any Adventure in Patagonia) - November 4, 2025
