The cost of quality healthcare facilities is rapidly increasing. A visit to the hospital can mean several thousand rupees just gone in doing diagnostic tests. And that’s before the diagnosis. If the treatment requires hospitalisation or surgery, the medical bills will continue to rise. A comprehensive health insurance policy can save the day, but there’s something that can be even more beneficial — yoga. The adage, ’prevention is better than cure,’ is true because if you incorporate yoga into your lifestyle, you can easily stay away from several ailments. Learn how practising yoga can help you avoid health insurance claims. Can Yoga Help You Avoid Health Insurance Claims? Regular practice of yoga is beneficial for both physical and mental well-being. By improving your overall health and preventing chronic illnesses, yoga can help avoid health insurance claims. Yoga helps manage and prevent chronic illnesses, such as hypertension, heart disease, and type 2 diabetes. It also helps in pain management, strengthens muscles, improves flexibility, and reduces the risk of falls and injuries. Apart from physical health, yoga also helps lower stress and anxiety and improves sleep, thereby lowering the risk of falling sick. However, if there’s a history of critical illnesses like cancer or stroke in the family, it’s recommended to buy critical illness insurance and stay financially prepared against the exorbitant treatment costs. Ways Yoga Can Help You Avoid Health Insurance Claims Incorporating yoga into your daily life has numerous health benefits. Here are some ways yoga can help avoid health insurance claims by improving your overall health – 1. Reduces risk of critical ailments Yoga has been found to be effective in reducing the risk of critical illnesses like heart attack, cancer, and kidney failure. However, one has to practice it regularly to reap the health benefits and save on medical expenses. 2. Manages chronic diseases If you suffer from chronic conditions like diabetes, high blood pressure, back pain, migraines, arthritis, or asthma, yoga can help manage the conditions and minimise the need for medications or treatments. It also helps in weight management by improving your metabolism. 3. Improves posture Sitting for a prolonged period can affect your spine, back, and posture. Yoga asanas help alleviate the pain and improve flexibility and posture, reducing the risk of falls and injuries. 4. Reduces Stress & Anxiety One of the positive effects of yoga is on our mental health. It helps reduce depression, stress, and anxiety, which can lead to hypertension, cardiac issues, etc., if not addressed. 5. Boosts Immunity Regularly practising yoga has been proven to improve or strengthen your immunity, making you less vulnerable to illnesses. 6. Improves sleep When your body is relaxed and mind free from stress and anxiety, your sleep quality improves. This, in turn, reduces the risk of health issues due to sleep disorders. Yoga helps achieve this. 7. Strengthens muscles Certain yoga asanas like plank pose, chair pose, bridge pose, tree pose, etc., help tone the muscles and also strengthen the weak muscles of the body. Conclusion Yoga has gained worldwide popularity because of several health benefits. If you practice yoga regularly, you will be able to see the change in your physical and mental health. It reduces the risk of diseases, boosts your energy levels, and keeps you active all through the day. Now, when you adopt a healthy style, there are fewer chances of falling ill and claiming health insurance. FAQs related to Yoga Health Insurance 1. Can Yoga help reduce health insurance costs? Yes. When you maintain good health and do not make any claims during a policy year, you get benefits like a No Claim Bonus (NCB). The NCB will increase your sum insured without any increase in the premium. While calculating the premium, insurers also look at your lifestyle, and if you maintain a healthy lifestyle, the premium will be lower. 2. How can yoga improve your overall health? Yoga has many health benefits. If you regularly practice asanas, it will boost your immunity and help ward off illnesses and infections. It will also reduce the risk of critical illnesses like cancer, diabetes, heart disease, etc. Certain yoga postures also help lessen or manage pain related to the back, spine, and arthritis and improve your quality of life. 3. What are the benefits offered by health insurance for practising yoga? Practicing yoga consistently will keep you fit and healthy. When you don’t file any claim during a policy year, the insurer will reward you with a no-claim bonus, which will increase with every claim-free policy year. The NCB is either a discount on the premium (for the next policy year) or an increased sum insured at the same cost. You will also get discounts and wellness rewards for maintaining a healthy lifestyle. 4. Does health insurance cover Yoga? Yes, some health insurance plans cover yoga as part of AYUSH treatments. While buying a healthcare policy, check if the plan covers yoga or if you have to opt for AYUSH treatment coverage separately. 5. How does Yoga help in reducing health insurance premiums? When you maintain a healthy lifestyle by practising yoga, insurers lower your premium as the chances of filing claims are low. For every claim-free policy year, insurers reward you with a No Claim Bonus (NCB). This NCB is a discount on the premium or an increase in the sum insured at no extra cost. The discount increases with each claim-free policy year and can go up to 50% for five claim-free years. Disclaimer: The above information is for illustrative purposes only. For more details, please refer to the policy wordings and prospectus before concluding the sales. RELATED ARTICLES Yoga for Preventing Diseases: How Yoga Can Help Combat Health Issues? What Are the Common Wellness Benefits of Health Insurance? 6 Ways Yoga Can Help You Deal With Stress Of The Corporate Life Healthy Habits That Can Increase Longevity Family Wellness Activities for A Better and Healthier Life
