Guided Meditations Browse the entire library, or select a category below: Meditation: Meeting Life with a Kind Presence (21:28 min.) This practice guides us to a receptive, kind presence by starting with listening, and moving through a body scan. We then rest in an open awareness, responding to whatever arises... Meditation: The Center of Now (22:26 min) The portal to presence is awakening through the body from the inside out, and then opening to include sound in field of aliveness. This reveals the awake space that... Meditation on Intention: Coming Home to What Truly Matters (22:38 min.) In this guided meditation, we explore the power of intention—the quiet inner compass that reconnects us with our sincerity, our longing, and the truth of our own hearts. Through... Donations Please consider a donation of any size—your generosity allows us to offer these talks and meditations freely. Meditation: Inner Space – Gateway to Open Awareness (20:08) This meditation is adapted from a meditation called “Open Focus.” Let whatever comes spontaneously to your awareness to be there as you follow along with the questions, which... Meditation: Collecting, Unifying and Opening the Mind (21:56 min.) Collecting, unifying and opening the mind, we begin with a listening attention, noticing sounds that are here. Relaxing open and letting sounds wash through. With the same... Meditation: Continuous Space Suffused with Awareness (19:07 min.) By learning to inhabit the body, we discover the space and aliveness that fills the universe. In this meditation we are guided through the body, filling different domains with... New to Meditation? Get resources to help start your meditation practice. Ready to Nourish Your Practice? Check out Tara's "8 Essentials" Tipsheet Meditation: Breath by Breath – Relaxing with Our Life (19:04 min.) The breath can be a powerful portal to presence. This meditation guides us in relaxing with the breath, including the breath in a body scan, and then allowing the breath to serve... Meditation: Collecting and Quieting the Mind (17:02 min.) Our conditioned mind is filled with distractions, including worry-thoughts that continually create anxiety in the body. This meditation guides us in relaxing the body, and then... Meditation: The Power of the Sacred Pause — Clearing to Remember Heartspace (6:56 min) In just a few minutes, this practice guides us to pause, deepen attention and reconnect with the spaciousness, presence and of caring of our awakening heart.... Meditation: The Heartspace That is Home (21:46 min) No matter how far you’ve wandered, this heartspace – this awake tender awareness – is only a half-breath of remembrance away. This meditation awakens attention to the space of... Meditation: Calling on Your Awakened Heart (25:39 min.) In the midst of difficulty we need access to our deepest wisdom and love. This guided meditation calls forth this loving presence by opening to the heart and spirit of whatever... Meditation: Awakening Our Energy Body (22:19 min) This meditation scans the body and directly invites the awakening of key energy centers (chakras) in our body. We then rest in the openhearted awareness that includes this ever... Meditation: Receiving This Life in Awareness (22:37 min) In our everyday life we are conditioned to feel that life is happening to us, or that we are the doer. This meditation deconditions that self-centrality by bringing attention to... Meditation: In the Body (20:29 min.) This guided meditation invites you to gently come home to the aliveness of the body. Through mindful awareness, you’ll learn to soften tension, release mental agitation, and rest... Meditation: The Blessings of Yes (20:10 min.) When our hearts open to the life that is here, just as it is, we discover vast loving presence. This meditation engages the smile as we scan through and awaken to our body and... Meditation: A Relaxed, Open Presence (12:30 min.) When we are stressed, our body and mind contract, and energetically we resist the life in the present moment. This meditation helps de-condition the stress reaction by guiding us... Meditation: Resting in Knowing (22:11 min.) Behind the activity of thinking, and the ever-changing flow of sounds, sensations and feelings, there is a great and awake silence that holds all that unfolds. This space of... Meditation: Opening to the Mystery (17:34 min) "It only takes a reminder to breathe, a moment to be still, and just like that, something in me settles, softens, makes space for imperfection. The harsh voice of judgment drops... Meditation: Entering Heartspace with the “Smile-Down” (18:40 min.) The practice of visualizing and feeling a smile spreading through the body helps us access the natural tenderness and openness of our being. This meditation guides us in the... Meditation: Being Here (20:53 min.) This meditation begins with listening to sounds as a portal to spacious awareness. In addition to guiding attention to naturally occurring sounds, Tara plays chimes and gongs to...
