Continuing Education Programs Continuing Education Programs & Professional Development Continuing Education Programs & Professional Development Certificates in New York City for Accounting Professionals Certificate in Accounting The Accounting Certificate Program develops students’ abilities to understand business transactions and financial statements and to determine the most appropriate financial measures for those events. Choose from a range of courses tailored to meet your specific professional goals. Earn professional credentials and accelerate your career with the critical skills you need to succeed in the industry. This program is approved by the National Association of Certified Public Bookkeepers (NACPB). Program Information Join us for an Open House for the Accounting Certificate on Wednesday, February 11, at 6:00 pm. Click here to sign up. Duration of the program: The program consists of 4 courses and can be completed in 2 or 3 semesters, depending on scheduling. Tuition: $2,650 plus a one-time $25 registration fee Payment Plan: Down payment of $1,455 + 2 payments of $610 Brochure: Schedule and Books Program Information and Schedule Courses and Program Details Bookkeeping I This course is designed to meet the needs of students who plan to specialize in accounting or in other business areas. Students are exposed to manual and computerized accounting principles. They will have hands-on opportunities to participate in a project to apply and conceptualize course content. Topics include: Accounting terminology, the Accounting Cycle and Control Systems. Students will prepare financial statements from ledgers and journals. After successful completion of the program, students may sit for the – National Certification of Public Bookkeepers – Certification Exam. Course Material: Computer with camera; Price, Haddock & Farina, College Accounting Chapters 1-30, most recent edition, McGraw-Hill Publishing Connect Platform – Purchase the version the option for which is “Connect” Schedule / Registration Live Via Zoom Bookkeeping II This course places emphasis on statement analysis and managerial accounting. Through the interpretation of financial data, students gain an understanding of how management decisions are made. Students who successfully complete Bookkeeping II may take the NACPB exam. This course and the NACPB fulfills the needs of those students seeking entry level accounting positions. Topics include: Financial Statement Analysis, Liquidity and Profitability Ratios, Depreciation, Capital Expenditures. Prerequisites: Bookkeeping I. Course Material: Computer with camera; Price, Haddock & Farina, College Accounting Chapters 1-30, most recent edition, McGraw-Hill Publishing Connect Platform – Purchase the version the option for which is “Connect” Schedule / Registration Live Via Zoom QuickBooks Do you have little or no knowledge of accounting but want to learn how to use QuickBooks? This class is designed to teach you a simple way to manage business finances and create reports that are critical for strategic business decisions. Students will have hands-on opportunities to create accounts, generate reports and become proficient with the program. Topics Include: Setting up a company, managing inventory and sales, invoicing, banking, employees and payroll, generating year-end management reports Course material: Computer with camera; Kay, Computer Accounting with QuickBooks online, most recent edition (QuickBooks link provided with textbook), McGraw-Hill Publishing Connect Platform – Purchase the version the option for which is “Connect” Schedule / Registration Live Via Zoom Payroll Fundamentals The Payroll Fundamentals Course provides students with the knowledge and skills needed to manage the administration of employee wages and benefits. Students will learn: How to prepare detailed itemized invoices, to track costs across the business and to assess profitability; How to evaluate employees’ wages and benefits relating to type of work and hours worked; How to prepare reports and file withholding taxes for businesses and employees and maintain payroll records; Upon successful completion of this course, students are eligible take the National Association of Certified Public Bookkeepers – Payroll Certification Exam. The online project integrates research, theory and real business applications to create a systematic process for payroll accounting, reporting and compliance. Course Material: Computer with camera; Landin & Schirmer, Payroll Accounting, most recent edition, McGraw-Hill Publishing Connect Platform – Purchase the version the option for which is “Connect” Schedule / Registration Request Information About Our Certificate Programs and Courses Request Information Have questions about Hunter College Continuing Education Courses and Certificate Programs? Please reach out to the CE Office and one of our team members will be happy to assist you.
