Accounting certifications (beyond a CPA license) Accounting certifications expand your expertise in a specific area and help you gain a competitive edge over your peers. To help you understand which accounting designation can help you reach your career goals, we're sharing seven accounting certifications that go beyond the recognized CPA license. Summary Accounting certifications expand an individual's expertise in specific areas of accounting. These certifications demonstrate competency, align professionals with high standards, attract employers, and increase earning potential by focusing on niche areas like management accounting, internal auditing, financial planning, investment analysis, or fraud examination. Ultimately, pursuing these credentials allows accounting professionals to leverage their skills and distinguish themselves in their careers. Check out the video below to learn more about popular accounting certifications. What’s the difference: accounting certifications vs CPA licensure? Accounting certifications and the CPA license are not the same. Your CPA license is granted by the state board of accountancy and is a legal requirement to complete the following tasks: Prepare financial statements Conduct external company audits Defend a tax return before the IRS Holding a CPA license also proves you have more intensive knowledge in both foundational and specialized accounting topics. You’re also better prepared to take on more senior roles in accounting or even open your own accounting firm. Accounting certifications are optional ways to demonstrate excellence and move into areas of specialization within the profession. Typically, they're issued through private organizations and focus on a specific niche within the profession. Although they’re not legally required for any job, accounting certifications make you more attractive to employers since many are granted by esteemed professional organizations. Why get accounting certifications? Why should you invest into earning an accounting designation? These benefits show why it's well worth the effort. Shows competency and commitment Why not just use Continued Professional Education (CPE) courses to stay sharp on industry updates and build new skills? After all, if you are a CPA, it’s already a requirement to keep your license. While CPE courses are a great way to expand your expertise and even focus on specializing in a particular area, it commands less authority than certification. While CPE shows a desire to learn, an accounting certification demonstrates intentional focus and a much more intensive proficiency in your niche. Aligns you with a standard of integrity and reputation Accounting certifications are granted by professional organizations, which hold themselves and their members to high expectations. For example, they typically hold certified members accountable to ethical requirements and yearly CPE to maintain their certification. In doing so, you put yourself in step with the organization’s values, integrity, reputation, and quality of expertise. Attracts employers Going the extra mile to earn an accounting certification shows employers you have a growth mindset and that they can rely on your skillsets to get the job done. Although certifications aren’t legal work requirements, some employers may require them because they illustrate your dedication and enhanced expertise. Increases your earning potential With the increased expertise, reputation, and responsibilities that come with accounting designations, you also have the opportunity to access higher-paying positions. 7 best accounting certifications to help you stand out You're ready to start working toward a certification, but which one? These seven accounting certifications will open the door to a wide variety of career paths. Certified Management Accountant (CMA) The Institute of Management Accountants (IMA) offers the Certified Management Accountant designation, which shows competency in 12 specific topics, including risk mitigation, financial strategy, and data analytics. This option is ideal for accounting and finance professionals who thrive in high-impact, decision-making work in corporate settings. CMAs sit on the internal staff of an organization and are often involved in board meetings, present to shareholders, and advance into senior or executive positions. Average CMA salary : $105,943 1 CMA requirements : Education : Bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited university or college or an international equivalent Membership : Active membership with the IMA Work experience: Two consecutive years of experience in management accounting or financial management, excluding internships, or training roles CMA Exam : Two-part exam with each part covering six specific topics and consisting of 100 multiple-choice questions and two essay question How to maintain your certification : 30 hours of CPE each year and hold an active membership in the IMA Enrolled Agent (EA) Enrolled Agents are tax specialists authorized by the U.S. Department of Treasury to represent taxpayers before the IRS. They help clients plan and prepare tax returns, prepare clients for audits, and represent them in cases of tax debt. Average EA salary : $72,507 2 Education : N/A Membership : N/A Work experience : Two years of experience in tax compliance and law EA Exam : A three-section exam focused solely on tax topics, consisting of multiple-choice questions How to maintain your certification : 72 hours of EA CE every three years Certified Internal Auditor® (CIA®) This accountant certification given by the Institute of Internal Auditors (The IIA) allows you to perform internal audits within a company, anywhere in the world. Whereas CPAs are external hires and hold a US-granted designation, Certified Internal Auditors work for the organization they audit and hold a global designation. A CIA certification authorizes you to audit your own company without conflict of interest by holding you accountable to a code of ethics and standards of practice. CIAs commonly work in the finance department, making sure that their financial statements are accurate and follow regulations, but may also work in internal controls, compliance, assurance, or corporate governance to creating and consult on the guiding principles for company operations. Average CIA salary : $76,185 3 Education : Bachelor's degree or one of the following: Active Internal Audit Practitioner (IAP )designation Five years of internal audit experience Be an active student in your last year of college Membership : N/A (but members enjoy discounted pricing on the CMA Exam parts) Work experience : One to five years, depending on your higher education CIA Exam : Three-section exam totaling 325 multiple-choice questions, unless you hold a CPA license, then you only need to pass the one-section CIA Challenge Exam. How to maintain your certification : 40 hours of CPE per year Certified Financial Planner ® (CFP ® ) CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER ® (CFP®) professionals hold the accounting credential that equips them for global work as a financial planner. The CFP ® certification designation is recognized as the top credential in financial planning, with a commitment to serving clients’ best interests by providing financial consulting, personalized pathways to achieving financial goals, and portfolio management. Average CFP salary : $77,057 4 CFP requirements : Education : To sit for the CFP ® Exam, you must first complete a CFP Board-registered education program or hold an approved designation that allows you to skip much of the coursework. To earn your CFP credential, you must also hold a Bachelor’s degree. Membership : No, but you must have an account with CFP Board. Work experience : 6,000 hours of relevant experience or 4,000 hours in an apprenticeship under a certified CFP® professional, pass a background check, and uphold the Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct, CFP® Exam : Six-hour long exam of 170 multiple-choice questions, split into four quarters How to maintain your certification : 30 credit hours of approved continuing education during each two-year renewal cycle Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) A CFA charter holder is a finance professional with in-depth competency related to investment management and analysis. Granted by the CFA Institute, this accounting credential shows that you can provide knowledgeable investment advice and make informed recommendations on how to increase growth and profitability. CFAs often work in analysis or advisory to help their clients or organization manage wealth, develop portfolios, and minimize risk. Average CFA salary : $88,111 5 CFA requirements : Education : Bachelor’s degree or be an active undergrad within 11 months of graduation Membership : Active membership with CFA Institute Work experience : Between 1,000 and 4,000 hours depending on higher education CFA Exam : 3-part exam—Level I, Level II, and Level III—all consisting of multiple-choice questions and vignette-supported essays How to maintain your certification : 20 hours of CPE annually, two of which should be focused on standards, regulations, and ethics content; active membership with CFA Institute Certified Fraud Examiner (CFE) The Association of Certified Fraud Examiners grants the CFE certification to professionals who specialize in investigating and preventing fraud. The accounting designation demonstrates expertise in identifying and analyzing fraudulent activities, gathering evidence, and supporting legal proceedings. CFEs may work in different industries and organizations, including corporations, government agencies, and law enforcement. Average CFE salary : $147,203 6 CFE requirements: Education : Typically a bachelor's degree, though there is an eligibility points system that provides multiple pathways Membership : Active member of ACFE Work experience : Two years of relevant experience related to fraud prevention and detection CFE Exam : A four-section exam covering financial transactions and fraud schemes, law, investigations, and fraud prevention; 100 multiple-choice questions per section How to maintain your certification : You must earn 20 CPE credits yearly. At least 10 of those credits must focus on ethics, detection, and deterrence of fraud, with two credits dedicated to ethics. Certified in Financial Forensics (CFF) The CFF certification is like the CFE, but this accounting designation demonstrates a specialization in applying financial principles and techniques to legal matters. Having this credential shows your competency in risk management for internal controls, financial statement misrepresentation and dispute resolution, damages calculations, and bankruptcy. Average CFF salary : $130,00 7 CFF requirements : Education : Active CPA and complete 75 hours of CPE in forensic accounting within five years of applying for the CFF exam Membership : Active membership with the AICPA Work experience : At least 1,000 hours working in a related field and within five years of applying for the CFF Exam CFF Exam : 175 multiple-choice questions in a four-hour format How to maintain your certification : 20 hours of CPE yearly and hold an active membership in the AICPA How can I start earning accounting credentials? As an accounting professional, you have options to leverage your skills in an area of interest and build a career that’s challenging, exciting, and fulfilling. Whether you’re fighting financial fraud, working with the IRS, or collaborating with the board of directors, accounting certifications will help you curate your career identity to stand out from the crowd. Let Becker help you achieve your goals and take your career even further—with CMA, CIA, EA, or CPA Exam Review that sets you up to earn the right credential for your growth. Try Becker exam review FREE! CMA Exam Review free trial CIA Exam Review free trial EA Exam Review free trial CPA Exam Review free trial https://www.ziprecruiter.com/Salaries/Certified-Management-Accountant-Salary https://www.ziprecruiter.com/Salaries/Enrolled-Agent-Salary https://www.ziprecruiter.com/Salaries/Cia-Auditor-Salary https://www.payscale.com/research/US/Job=Certified_Financial_Planner_(CFP)/Salary https://www.ziprecruiter.com/Salaries/Cfa-Chartered-Financial-Analyst-Salary https://www.ziprecruiter.com/Salaries/Certified-Fraud-Examiner-Salary https://www.payscale.com/research/US/Certification=Certified_in_Financial_Forensics_(CFF)/Salary
