Find an Online English Teacher to Help You Master English Are you trying to become fluent in English? Do you need to improve your English skills for school, work or relocation? On Preply, you get access to a range of online English tutors for private lessons. How do online English lessons with Preply work? Booking and following a lesson with an online English tutor at Preply is easy: 1. Choose a tutor: You can use filters in "Find tutors" section to narrow the search results for your needs and budget range. You can choose based on speciality needed, specify the price range, prefered time, etc. You can even filter tutors by nationality or other languages they speak. If you have any questions for a tutor, you can message them directly. 2. Book your first lesson: When you've found a tutor, you can book your first lesson at a time and day that works for you. During your first lesson you will discuss your needs and goals with your private English tutor. 3. Buy a lesson package: If you enjoyed your first lesson and want to continue learning with this tutor, you can buy a lesson package and schedule online English lessons for the coming weeks. 4. During and after your lessons: Lessons will take place online in Preply Space, our own video platform for effective online learning. After your private English lesson the tutor might give you a summary of the class or give you a homework assignment. 5. Confirming your lessons and leaving a review: After the lesson, the platform will automatically send you a request to confirm the lesson took place and leave a review. If you don't do this within 72-hours the lesson will be confirmed automatically. How Preply Can Help You Learn English Online People looking to improve their English language skills have many options, so why should you use Preply? Well, our first-class English teachers have experience teaching at every level. No matter where you are on your journey to learning English — absolute beginner or more advanced — you will be able to find the right private English tutor to meet your personal needs. Additionally, they all go through a background check to ensure their credentials are legitimate and that you get the highest quality online English lessons. Moreover, our platform is convenient and easy to use, thereby making the task of connecting with an English tutor simple. You can contact an English tutor, book lessons on our site, then use our video platform Preply Space for effective online learning. Native English speakers: You can get online lessons from a native speaker who has not only mastered the language, but can also offer sound information on culture and phrasing that you will not learn from textbooks alone. A personal approach: English lessons are tailored to your needs and your specific stage of learning, whether you want to learn conversational or business English. Rather than be stuck in a classroom with a bunch of other students, you get one-on-one time with an English language expert and will see a faster progression in your skills. Convenience: Online English lessons can take place wherever and whenever you need them. Schedule them with your English tutor to fit around your other commitments, such as work or school. You can take an online English lesson in the comforts of home, rather than rushing through traffic to get to a lesson in town. Affordable: All our virtual English teachers offer an hourly rate. The price depends on level of experience, qualifications and other factors; this allows you to choose someone who fits your budget. You can take some initial lessons with different tutors to find the one to match your requirements and budget perfectly. Several thousand experts: Preply is the platform of choice for a massive number of online English teachers as we are a trusted learning website. We have a wide selection of experts so you will be able to find a tutor whose teaching style works for you. They each have reviews from previous students and a star rating. You can read through the feedback before committing to an English lesson to get a good idea of their teaching methods and techniques. This helps you determine if the online tutor is the right fit before you even make contact to ensure you find the best English teacher possible. Tutors you can trust: All our tutors go through a background check to ensure their credentials are legitimate and that you get the highest quality online English lessons. There's a tutor on Preply for everyone: Our first-class virtual English teachers have experience teaching at every level. No matter where you are on your journey to learning English — absolute beginner or more advanced — you will be able to find the right English tutor to meet your personal needs. Preply has private English tutors from many different countries, so if you are a complete beginner, you can find a tutor who also speaks your native language Money-Back Guarantee for All Online English Lessons For your peace of mind, Preply guarantees 100% money back if you're not happy with the selected instructor. We have so much confidence in our vetted English tutors that if you don't think they provided a great first English lesson, we will refund your payment. Want to learn more about how Preply can help you with learning English? Chat with one of our friendly support team members via email or the message board on the website. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) 🗣 How hard is English, and how many hours will it take to become proficient? native speaker now. 📲 How do interactive online English lessons via video work? 🎓 What are the most popular English tests? test prep tutors on Preply . IELTS is accepted by most American, Australian, British, Canadian, Irish, and New Zealand academic institutions, and many more across the world. In particular, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and the United Kingdom use IELTS scores as proof of prospective immigrants' competence in English. More specifically, IELTS uses British English and is generally favored by the United Kingdom and institutions in Commonwealth nations, such as New Zealand and Australia. On the other hand, the TOEFL tests your ability to communicate in English in academic settings. Administered by US-based organization the Education Testing Service, TOEFL uses American English. It is accepted by thousands of institutions across many countries, including the UK, USA, and Australia, as well as all of the world’s top 100 universities. It can also satisfy the required language component for student, post-study, skilled migration, and business visas in Australia, Canada, and New Zealand.
