Hire high-quality, culturally competent tutors. Our fully-vetted, qualified tutors specialize in the core subject areas that your students need—ELA, literacy, mathematics, science, social studies, and history. These professionals work 1:1 or in small groups using curriculum aligned with your instruction. Culturally competent, they can also serve multilingual learners, students with disabilities, and at-risk students. Alleviate the stress of managing your tutoring workforce. From hiring and scheduling to payroll and professional development—there’s a lot to consider when it comes to managing an effective tutoring workforce. We help our partners tackle administrative burdens related to running an effective, high-impact tutoring program. Make sure training and support are done right. When we manage your program, tutors are assigned a talent advisor to train, coach, and provide ongoing development in high-impact tutoring best practices. Before their first student session, tutors go through a new hire orientation, self-assessment, and our exclusive TutorSmarts™ Training program to ensure students are always engaged in rigorous learning. Jumpstart your high-impact tutoring program. Attracting Talent We target qualified, culturally competent tutoring candidates through strategic digital marketing. Our recruiting process Screening and Accreditation We know that safety is top of mind for every administrator—so we offer the most stringent hiring process in the industry. How we vet tutors Payroll and Benefits Administration We handle every aspect of the payroll and benefits administration process, so you can concentrate on what matters most. How we do it Cost Savings We alleviate administrative burdens and costs related to hiring and managing a successful tutoring workforce. Save time and money Talent Care Our talent care team supports our tutors through training, coaching, and overall management. About our support High-impact tutoring program guide. Resource a program. Recruit quality tutors. Manage an entire program at scale. You need the best and brightest. We can help solve your most complex talent challenges – both today and in the future – by delivering high–quality talent that moves education forward. Contact us at 1.855.KELLY.ED and one of our agents can help with your request. Or fill out this form to submit an email.
