Burroughs Lamar The Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade is an annual parade in New York Citypresented by the American department store chain Macy’s. While not the first such event held in the United […] Philippe Fatin Irrawaddy, River of Illusions I carried with me the first introductory lectures on this mysterious country: George Orwell, Norman Lewis, Joseph Kessel—invaluable to understanding […] Karel Julien Cole Porcelain tombstone photos During my visits to one of the cemeteries in Ghent, Flanders Begium, I regularly took pictures of porcelain grave photos. These […] Marianne Boiral The Aristos My entire artistic approach is built around faces, “representations” of faces. I work on photographic portraits with a large number of specific […] Burroughs Lamar Philippe Fatin by L'Œil de la Photographie Karel Julien Cole by L'Œil de la Photographie Marianne Boiral by L'Œil de la Photographie Previous Next Install WebApp on Android Liliana Ranalletta No-Porto The Fiumara Grande district in Fiumicino, with its vaguely pasoliniana atmosphere, stretches along the Lazio coastline near Rome. This fishing village is a concentration of beauty where, next to the old lighthouse abandoned for 50 years, large melancholic spiders stand out—they are the old nets of cinematic memory, now no longer functioning. Here, the world seems to have stopped. The variety of the landscape and its functions have made… Nicolas Hasson-Fauré Brotherhood and Unity – Looking for the ghosts of Yugoslavia It was a long strip of asphalt stretching 1,170 km through the heart of the Balkans. Under socialist Yugoslavia, the highway of Brotherhood and Unity crossed the country from north to south, passing through four of its six republics: Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, and Macedonia. The highway, built in the aftermath of the Second World War, served both economic and political… Christian Fleitz The Second Writing Dare the Second Writing All photographers know that photo(n)-graphy is the art of writing with the grain of light, with the photon. But what is often forgotten is that light knows how to write in two fundamentally different ways. There is the first way of writing, the one that produces all the images we know: point by point, pixel by pixel. However, there also exists another form… Selected from your favorites , This selection is reserved for all our readers who are paying subscribers. Galerie Daltra : Isabel Muñoz Isabel Muñoz is an internationally renowned Spanish photographer who stands out for her use of platinum prints and very large formats that sublimate her anthropological study of the human being. Since her first series, Tango en Flamenco (1989), she has never stopped exploring the beauty of the human body through different cultures, different rituals. Dance, body transformations, the human-animal relationship are at the center of her research. Isabel Munoz seeks… In Memoriam : Michele McNally (1955-2022) by Scott Thode ‘Though she be but little she is fierce’ William Shakespeare A Midsummer Night’s Dream, Act 3 Scene 2 I always think of this line from A Midsummer Night’s Dream when I think about Michele McNally. Michele was fierce: funny, energetic, loyal, smart, tough, loving, focused, caring, competitive, and a fierce boss and a fierce friend. Michele and I were friends long before I went to work for her at Fortune… Camera Work Gallery : David Yarrow Camera Work Gallery presents the exhibition “David Yarrow”. With a comprehensive selection of works, some of which have never been shown before, the exhibition provides an insight into the creative work of this photographer. David Yarrow is represented exclusively by Camera Work. It is the artist’s first major exhibition in Germany. The haunting animal portraits of the Scotsman, born in 1966, are unmistakable and an imposing documentation of the captivating… World Food Photography Awards Opens Their First Ever New York Show Empire Stores 55 Water Street, Brooklyn, NY 11201, United States of America from January 11th, 2026 to February 8th, 2026 Trees in the Arts and Literature. Around Michael Kenna’s Photography l 1 Cour Lafontaine, 38000 Grenoble, France from December 16th, 2025 to January 22nd, 2026 Atef Talbi – Gone Too Far Galerie Basia Embiricos 14 rue des Jardins Saint Paul, 75004 Paris from December 4th, 2025 to December 21st, 2025 Museo Nacional de las Culturas del Mundo: Philippe Paquet – Mongolia: From the Gobi Desert to the Altai Mountains National Museum of World Cultures Moneda 13, Historic Center, Mexico City from August 14th, 2025 to January 31st, 2026 Julian Slagman – A Failed Attempt to Photograph Reality Galleri Format Stora Nygatan 53, 211 37 Malmö, Suède from December 5th, 2025 to January 5th, 2026 Latest Photography Videos Two Strangers Trying Not To Kill Each Other | Official Trailer Jean Pierre Laffont court metrage Export Youtube Lucien Clergue : l’homme des Rencontres (français / english) DOMINIQUE ISSERMANN vue par Amaury VOSLION - S'IL N'EN RESTAIT QU'UNE The Last Request - Paola. A short film by Rankin The Important Things -- Andy Romanoff & Sharla Fox at the La Quinta Museum A Dialogue Between Light and Human Body | Interview with Photographer Klaus Kampert In the realm of Charles Traub - Documentary by :iidrr Gallery Roger Ballen at the Standard Bank Art Gallery December 2022. Walkthrough Charles Matton, visiblement Sarah Moon - ARTE FRANCE 2002 Bruce Gilden - Tracks ARTE Henri Cartier-Bresson in action Steve McCurry on his iconic photographs Latest news
