Latest News An official website of the State of Florida How You Know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. File A Complaint ✕ Home Licensing Renewals Resources Meetings The Board FAQs Contact Apply for a License Renew a License Status of Application Verify a License File a Complaint Background Screening Processing Times Home Licensing Renewals Resources Meetings The Board FAQs Contact Apply for a License Renew a License Status of Application Verify a License File a Complaint Background Screening Processing Times Processing Times ✕ Home Licensing Renewals Resources Meetings The Board FAQs Contact Apply for a License Renew a License Status of Application Verify a License File a Complaint Background Screening Processing Times 2025 Florida Veteran Health Heroes Report–now available! November 11, 2025 Proudly Serving Those Who Have Served. This annual report is a tribute from the Department to our veterans, active-duty military members, and military... Read More The MQA FY 24-25 Annual Report and Long-Range Plan is Here! November 4, 2025 Explore the Florida Department of Health’s Division of Medical Quality Assurance (MQA) commitment to health care quality and safety in Florida. This... Read More The MQA FY 2024-25 Quarter Four Performance Report is Out! October 9, 2025 The Florida Department of Health’s Division of Medical Quality Assurance (MQA) is proud to announce the release of the FY 2024-25 Quarterly Performance... Read More 2025 Bills Impacting Health Care Professions August 21, 2025 These are summaries of legislation passed during the 2025 legislative session which affects Florida’s health care professions. Select a bill from the list to... Read More New Background Screening Requirements Now Effective June 27, 2025 Cleared to Care Launched July 1! As of July 1, 2025, all health care practitioners in Florida must comply with new background screening requirements when... Read More Are You Cleared to Care? June 10, 2025 As of July 1, 2025, health care practitioners must comply with background screening requirements when applying for initial licensure or renewing their... Read More Fraud Alert: Protect Your License June 6, 2025 We have seen a recent surge in fraudulent emails and phone calls targeting Florida health care practitioners by impersonating the Department of Health or... Read More Reframing the future of health care for underserved Floridians April 22, 2025 The goal of the Florida Reimbursement Assistance for Medical Education (FRAMEdental) program is to improve dental care accessibility by financially supporting... Read More HB 975’s New Background Screening Requirement April 4, 2025 Cleared to Care Marketing Campaign Launches to Inform Health Care Practitioners of New Background Screening Requirements Beginning July 1, 2025, all... Read More The MQA FY 2024-2025 Quarter Two Performance Report is Out! February 26, 2025 The Division of Medical Quality Assurance is proud to announce the release of the FY 24-25 Quarterly Performance Report for Quarter Two, covering the Florida... Read More 1 2 3 … 5 Next » E-Licensing Learn More about Electronic Licenses Armed Forces Licensing Office of Veteran Licensure Services Florida Health Source License Types for Health Care Professions Background Screening Learn More about the Process
