Software Development Services Scale your software development efforts. Effortlessly. We deliver high-quality software with top-tier nearshore talent. Schedule a Call Our Expertise Software Development Services: From Concept To Completion. Custom Software Development Build custom software tailored to business needs, including front-end interfaces and core back-end technology. QA and Testing Ensure technology products and services are robust and error-free through manual and automated QA . AI and Data Science Identify and leverage hidden patterns in your data, use machine learning, AI , and follow modern data engineering principles. Mobile App Development Develop high performance, secure mobile applications for iOS and Android devices. UX/UI Design Create beautiful, user-friendly designs for websites, mobile apps, and other human-machine interfaces. Platform and Infrastructure Keep applications scalable and resilient with cybersecurity and DevOps experts. Case Studies Projects successfully delivered in over 130 industry sectors. Our Awards Excellence. Our minimum bar for client delivery. Over 130 awards, accolades, and achievements showcase our quality and commitment to client success. 1250+projects delivered 130+industry sectors Ready to find out more? Book a discovery call to discuss your needs. Schedule a Call About BairesDev Why choose between cost savings and quality? We give you both. We're a US-based company powered by LATAM dev teams. It's a powerful combination. Procurement is simpler. Quality expectations are shared. Accountability is always there. Plus, our developers work your hours, speak English, and have experience with US teams. So you get the cost and scalability benefits of nearshore software development - without any of the sacrifices. “Their engineers perform at very high standards. We've had a strong relationship for almost 7 years.” Engagement Models How We Can Work With You. Need a couple of extra software engineers on your team? Get senior, production-ready developers who integrate directly into your internal team. They work your hours, join your standups, and follow your workflows—just like any full-time engineer. Need a few teams to deliver several projects in simultaneously? Spin up focused, delivery-ready pods to handle full builds or workstreams. Together we align on priorities. Then our tech PMs lead the team and drive delivery to maintain velocity and consistency. Want to offload everything to us, from start to finish? Hand off the full project lifecycle, from planning to deployment. You define the outcomes. We take full ownership of the execution and keep you looped in every step of the way. Engagement Models Comparison What do you need? Find out which one of our engagement models work best for you. Let's discuss how your setup should look. Schedule a Call Our Technologies Stack What's Your Stack? Leverage over 4,000 software engineers to build your digital products in whatever tech stack you need. Responsive. Adaptive. Reliable . Over 500 projects in-flight using modern software development methodologies. All methodologies Agile Agile We break large projects into smaller phases to deliver working software in small batches. Our software development lifecycle (SDLC) is iterative and incremental, ensuring quick adaptability and client success. DevOps DevOps Reliability, scalability, and security is in our DNA. We enable seamless collaboration between software teams and IT operations to mitigate risks and shorten development cycles. Lean Lean We build and ship Minimum Viable Products (MVPs) quickly. We integrate early feedback to meet business challenges and build in-demand, customer-driven products. Want to accelerate software development at your company? See how we can help.
