34 Colleges in the United States 3,495 Data Analytics Degrees Awarded Data Analytics is about average in terms of popularity for degree programs. That is, it ranks #236 out of the 395 majors across the country that we analyze each year. As such, the degree program isn't offered at every college in the United States, but there are schools that do have a program in the field that are top-notch when it comes to quality. College Factual reviewed 34 schools in the United States to determine which ones were the best for degree seekers in the field of data analytics. When you put them all together, these colleges and universities awarded 3,495 degrees in data analytics annually. Jump to one of the following sections: * Degree-Level Rankings Best Overall Data Analytics Schools List Choosing a Great Data Analytics School The data analytics program you select can have a big impact on your future. That's why we developed our collection of Best Schools for Data Analytics rankings. We derive our Best Overall Data Analytics School rankings by rolling up our degree-level rankings after weighting them by the number of degrees awarded at each school. You may want to choose one of the degree levels below to find the schools of most interest to you. Data Analytics Rankings by Degree Level The data analytics school you choose to invest your time and money in matters. To help you make the decision that is right for you, we've developed a number of major-specific rankings, including this list of the Best Data Analytics Schools. You can also filter this list by location to find schools closer to you. In addition to College Factual's rankings, you may want to take a look at College Combat, our unique tool that lets you pit your favorite schools head-to-head and compare how they rate on factors that most interest you. When you have some time, check it out - you may want to bookmark the link so you don't forget it. More information on how we come up with our rankings can be found here: College Factual's Data Methodology. Best Schools for Data Analytics in the United States If you aren't interested in a particular degree level and want to know which schools are the overall best at delivering an education for the data analytics degrees they offer, see the list below. 10 Top Schools in Data Analytics 1 Any student who is interested in data analytics has to look into University of Pennsylvania. Located in the large city of Philadelphia, UPenn is a private not-for-profit university with a very large student population. A Best Colleges rank of #2 out of 2,152 schools nationwide means UPenn is a great university overall.More information about a degree in data analytics from University of Pennsylvania 2 Master's Degree Highest Degree Type It is hard to beat Carnegie Mellon University if you want to pursue a degree in data analytics. Located in the large city of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Mellon is a private not-for-profit university with a large student population. A Best Colleges rank of #8 out of 2,152 colleges nationwide means Carnegie Mellon is a great university overall.More information about a degree in data analytics from Carnegie Mellon University Associates Degree Type AS in Data Analytics Program Name Get your foot in the door of a fast-growing field with the online associate degree in data analytics at Southern New Hampshire University. More information about a degree in AS in Data Analytics from Southern New Hampshire University Related Programs BS in Data Analytics MS in Data Analytics MBA in Business Analytics BS in Computer Science - Data Analysis BS in Geosciences - Natural Resources Conservation BS in Cybersecurity - Data Analytics 3 Master's Degree Highest Degree Type 108 Data Analytics Degrees Awarded Every student pursuing a degree in data analytics has to look into Columbia University in the City of New York. Located in the large city of New York, Columbia is a private not-for-profit university with a fairly large student population. A Best Colleges rank of #15 out of 2,152 schools nationwide means Columbia is a great university overall.More information about a degree in data analytics from Columbia University in the City of New York 4 Every student who is interested in data analytics has to look into New York University. Located in the city of New York, NYU is a private not-for-profit university with a very large student population. A Best Colleges rank of #16 out of 2,152 schools nationwide means NYU is a great university overall.More information about a degree in data analytics from New York University 5 Master's Degree Highest Degree Type 55 Data Analytics Degrees Awarded Located in the city of Minneapolis, UMN Twin Cities is a public university with a very large student population. A Best Colleges rank of #45 out of 2,152 schools nationwide means UMN Twin Cities is a great university overall.More information about a degree in data analytics from University of Minnesota - Twin Cities Majors Similar to Data Analytics Related Major Annual Graduates Other Multi/Interdisciplinary Studies 31,307 Biological & Physical Science 30,032 Interdisciplinary Studies 9,114 International Studies 6,614 Nutrition Science 5,598 Behavioral Science 4,493 Sustainability Science 3,745 Cognitive Science 2,852 Natural Sciences 2,514 Data Science 2,413 View All Data Analytics Related Majors > Notes and References The bars on the spread charts above show the distribution of the schools on this list +/- one standard deviation from the mean. The Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS) from the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES), a branch of the U.S. Department of Education (DOE) serves as the core of the rest of our data about colleges. Some other college data, including much of the graduate earnings data, comes from the U.S. Department of Education’s (College Scorecard). More about our data sources and methodologies. Popular Reports College Rankings Best by Location Degree Guides by Major Graduate Programs By Degree Level Popular Programs Compare Your School Options
