Summary What They Do Work Environment How to Become One Pay Job Outlook State & Area Data Similar Occupations More Info Summary Please enable javascript to play this video. Video transcript available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uD8DfbJrqRI. Quick Facts: Data Scientists 2024 Median Pay $112,590 per year $54.13 per hour Typical Entry-Level Education Bachelor's degree Work Experience in a Related Occupation None On-the-job Training None Number of Jobs, 2024 245,900 Job Outlook, 2024–34 34% (Much faster than average) Employment Change, 2024–34 82,500 What Data Scientists Do Data scientists use analytical tools and techniques to extract meaningful insights from data. Work Environment Data scientists spend much of their time in an office setting. Most work full time. How to Become a Data Scientist Data scientists typically need at least a bachelor’s degree in mathematics, statistics, computer science, or a related field to enter the occupation. Some employers require or prefer that applicants have a master’s or doctoral degree. Pay The median annual wage for data scientists was $112,590 in May 2024. Job Outlook Employment of data scientists is projected to grow 34 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations. About 23,400 openings for data scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. State & Area Data Explore resources for employment and wages by state and area for data scientists. Similar Occupations Compare the job duties, education, job growth, and pay of data scientists with similar occupations. More Information, Including Links to O*NET Learn more about data scientists by visiting additional resources, including O*NET, a source on key characteristics of workers and occupations. What Data Scientists Do About this section To present their findings, these scientists often make use of data visualization. Data scientists use analytical tools and techniques to extract meaningful insights from data. Duties Data scientists typically do the following: Determine which data are available and useful for the project Collect, categorize, and analyze data Create, validate, test, and update algorithms and models Use data visualization software to present findings Make business recommendations to stakeholders based on data analysis Data scientists often begin a project by gathering or identifying relevant data sources, such as surveys. They may use a variety of methods to obtain data, including through access to other organizations’ databases or by using web-scraping tools (software that extracts specific information from websites). They may start with large, unstructured datasets, commonly referred to as raw data. To properly analyze the data, these scientists must “clean” the raw data, a process by which they structure the data to make them readable by software programs. Data scientists develop algorithms (sets of instructions that tell computers what to do) and models to support programs for machine learning. They use machine learning to classify or categorize data or to make predictions related to the models. Scientists also must test the algorithms and models for accuracy, including for updates with newly collected data. Data scientists often use data visualization software to present their findings as charts, maps, and other graphics. Visualization techniques allow data scientists to clearly communicate their analyses to technical and nontechnical audiences, including colleagues, managers, and clients. Ensuring that audiences understand the information helps data scientists make recommendations for business decisions or process changes based on the results of their analysis. Some data scientists choose to focus on a particular area of work. For example, data scientists who have a strong coding or engineering background may develop or recommend systems, build machine learning algorithms, and devise ways to enhance web-browsing functions. Others conduct research for reports or academic journals. Still others focus on improving business strategy for activities such as marketing, sales, and user engagement. Work Environment About this section Data scientists typically work in an office setting. Data scientists held about 245,900 jobs in 2024. The largest employers of data scientists were as follows: Computer systems design and related services 11% Insurance carriers and related activities 10 Management of companies and enterprises 10 Management, scientific, and technical consulting services 6 Scientific research and development services 5 Data scientists spend much of their time in an office setting. Work Schedules Most data scientists work full time. How to Become a Data Scientist About this section Data scientists need strong computer skills. Data scientists typically need at least a bachelor’s degree in mathematics, statistics, computer science, or a related field to enter the occupation. However, some employers require or prefer that candidates have a master’s or doctoral degree. Education Data scientists typically need at least a bachelor’s degree, but some jobs require a master’s or doctoral degree. Common fields of degree include mathematics, statistics, computer science, business, and engineering. Because data science involves the use of algorithms and statistical techniques, students need extensive study in mathematics and statistics. High school students interested in becoming data scientists should take classes in subjects such as linear algebra, calculus, and probability and statistics. At the college level, courses in computer science are important in addition to math and statistics. Students must learn data-oriented programming languages as well as statistical, database, and other software for presenting analyses. Other Experience Some employers require industry-related experience or education. For example, data scientists seeking work in an asset management company may need to have experience in the finance industry or to have completed coursework that demonstrates an understanding of investments, banking, or related subjects. Important Qualities The following are examples of qualities that are important for these workers to perform their duties. For more information, visit the Employment Projections (EP) skills data page. Analytical skills. Data scientists must be adept at researching and at examining and interpreting findings. Computer skills. Data scientists must be able to write code, analyze data, develop or improve algorithms, and use data visualization tools. Communication skills. Data scientists must be able to convey the results of their analysis to technical and nontechnical audiences to make business recommendations. Logical-thinking skills. Data scientists must understand and be able to design and develop statistical models and to analyze data. Math skills. Data scientists use statistical methods to collect and organize data. Problem-solving skills. Data scientists must devise solutions to the problems they encounter in data collection and cleaning and in developing statistical models and algorithms. Pay About this section Data Scientists Median annual wages, May 2024 Data scientists Mathematical science occupations Total, all occupations The median annual wage for data scientists was $112,590 in May 2024. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $63,650, and the highest 10 percent earned more than $194,410. In May 2024, the median annual wages for data scientists in the top industries in which they worked were as follows: Computer systems design and related services $128,020 Management of companies and enterprises 126,940 Scientific research and development services 120,090 Management, scientific, and technical consulting services 110,240 Insurance carriers and related activities 108,920 Most data scientists work full time. Job Outlook About this section Data Scientists Percent change in employment, projected 2024–34 Data scientists Mathematical science occupations Total, all occupations Employment of data scientists is projected to grow 34 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations. About 23,400 openings for data scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Employment Employment growth for data scientists is expected to stem from an increased demand for data-driven decisions. The volume of data available and the potential uses for that data will increase over the projections decade. As a result, organizations will likely need more data scientists to mine and analyze the large amounts of information and data collected. Data scientists’ analysis will help organizations to make informed decisions and improve their business processes, to design and develop new products, and to better market their products. Employment projections data for data scientists, 2024–34 Occupational Title SOC Code Employment, 2024 Projected Employment, 2034 Change, 2024–34 Employment by Industry Percent Numeric SOURCE: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Employment Projections program Data scientists 15-2051 245,900 328,300 34 82,500 Get data State & Area Data About this section Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics (OEWS) The Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics (OEWS) program produces employment and wage estimates annually for over 800 occupations. These estimates are available for the nation as a whole, for individual states, and for metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas. The link below goes to OEWS data maps for employment and wages by state and area. Use the dropdown boxes to select an occupation. Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics (OEWS) Profiles Projections Central Occupational employment projections are developed for all states by Labor Market Information (LMI) or individual state Employment Projections offices. All state projections data are available at www.projectionscentral.org. Information on this site allows projected employment growth for an occupation to be compared among states or to be compared within one state. In addition, states may produce projections for areas; there are links to each state’s websites where these data may be retrieved. CareerOneStop CareerOneStop includes hundreds of occupational profiles with data available by state and metro area. There are links in the left-hand side menu to compare occupational employment by state and occupational wages by local area or metro area. There is also a salary info tool to search for wages by zip code. Similar Occupations About this section This table shows a list of occupations with job duties that are similar to those of data scientists. Occupation Job Duties ENTRY-LEVEL EDUCATION 2024 MEDIAN PAY Actuaries Actuaries use mathematics, statistics, and financial theory to analyze the economic costs of risk and uncertainty. Bachelor's degree $125,770 Computer and Information Research Scientists Computer and information research scientists design innovative uses for new and existing computing technology. Master's degree $140,910 Economists Economists conduct research, prepare reports, and evaluate issues related to monetary and fiscal policy. They also may collect and analyze statistical data. Master's degree $115,440 Financial Analysts Financial analysts guide businesses and individuals in decisions about expending money to attain profit. Bachelor's degree $101,910 Market Research Analysts Market research analysts study consumer preferences, business conditions, and other factors to assess potential sales of a product or service. Bachelor's degree $76,950 Mathematicians and Statisticians Mathematicians and statisticians analyze data and apply computational techniques to solve problems. Master's degree $104,350 Operations Research Analysts Operations research analysts use mathematics and logic to help solve complex issues. Bachelor's degree $91,290 Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Software developers design computer applications or programs. Software quality assurance analysts and testers identify problems with applications or programs and report defects. Bachelor's degree $131,450 Survey Researchers Survey researchers design and conduct surveys and analyze data. Master's degree $63,380 Last Modified Date: Thursday, August 28, 2025
