: a business establishment where meals or refreshments may be purchased Synonyms of restaurant Examples of restaurant in a Sentence when we get sick of cooking dinner at home, we like to go out to eat at a nice restaurant Recent Examples on the Web Examples are automatically compiled from online sources to show current usage. Read More Opinions expressed in the examples do not represent those of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback. At the Shrimp Basket restaurant in Pensacola, Florida, one customer has been a constant presence. —Steve Hartman, CBS News , 13 Dec. 2025 In 1985, Summerfest approached the restaurant about opening a location on its grounds. —Rachel Bernhard, jsonline.com , 13 Dec. 2025 The restaurant made the menu change to give existing customers a protein option and to bring in new customers, its staff said. —Ashley J. Dimella, FOXNews.com , 13 Dec. 2025 An employee then called the police, reporting that Ellis had cut himself with the hatchet inside the restaurant and was walking toward officers with the weapon raised, according to the report. —Jose R. Gonzalez, AZCentral.com , 13 Dec. 2025 See All Example Sentences for restaurant Word History Etymology borrowed from French, "restorative food or drink, public establishment where food and drink may be purchased," noun derivative from present participle of restaurer "to repair, refresh, renew," going back to Old French restorer, restaurer — more at restore First Known Use 1806, in the meaning defined above Time Traveler The first known use of restaurant was in 1806 Browse Nearby Words Cite this Entry “Restaurant.” Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary , Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/restaurant. Accessed 20 Dec. 2025. Share More from Merriam-Webster on restaurant Last Updated: - Updated example sentences Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more definitions and advanced search—ad free! Merriam-Webster unabridged : a business establishment where meals or refreshments may be purchased Synonyms of restaurant Examples of restaurant in a Sentence when we get sick of cooking dinner at home, we like to go out to eat at a nice restaurant Recent Examples on the Web Examples are automatically compiled from online sources to show current usage. Read More Opinions expressed in the examples do not represent those of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback. At the Shrimp Basket restaurant in Pensacola, Florida, one customer has been a constant presence. —Steve Hartman, CBS News , 13 Dec. 2025 In 1985, Summerfest approached the restaurant about opening a location on its grounds. —Rachel Bernhard, jsonline.com , 13 Dec. 2025 The restaurant made the menu change to give existing customers a protein option and to bring in new customers, its staff said. —Ashley J. Dimella, FOXNews.com , 13 Dec. 2025 An employee then called the police, reporting that Ellis had cut himself with the hatchet inside the restaurant and was walking toward officers with the weapon raised, according to the report. —Jose R. Gonzalez, AZCentral.com , 13 Dec. 2025 See All Example Sentences for restaurant Word History Etymology borrowed from French, "restorative food or drink, public establishment where food and drink may be purchased," noun derivative from present participle of restaurer "to repair, refresh, renew," going back to Old French restorer, restaurer — more at restore First Known Use 1806, in the meaning defined above Time Traveler The first known use of restaurant was in 1806 Browse Nearby Words Cite this Entry “Restaurant.” Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary , Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/restaurant. Accessed 20 Dec. 2025. Share More from Merriam-Webster on restaurant Last Updated: - Updated example sentences Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more definitions and advanced search—ad free! Merriam-Webster unabridged
