The Benefits of Hiring a Professional Event Planner Estimated reading time: 1 minute If you’re hosting an event, you want to make sure you get every detail right. From choosing an ideal venue to coordinating the perfect program—plus thinking ahead about parking, accessibility needs, and creating memorable swag—the logistics can become overwhelming. If you don’t thrive on managing event details and logistics, you’re not alone. But you don’t have to shoulder the burden yourself. Hiring a professional event planner can help you pull off a successful event with less stress. A professional will make sure the day goes off without a hitch so you can step back and focus on the tasks that require your full attention. Wondering if it’s worth it to hire an event planner? Here are four reasons to consider it. 1. Professional event planners offer expertise and experience. With their wealth of experience and knowledge in the industry, event planners can majorly fast-track the planning process. An event pro will be plugged into a network of trusted suppliers. They know all of the best venues and vendors, and they have a track record of working with each of them. Forget cold calling venues yourself to ask about pricing—an event planner can quickly present the options and help you zero in on the best fit for your event. Event professionals also understand the ins and outs of the rules and regulations you may not even think to ask about (I.e., do I need a special permit to host this event? What is the venue’s curfew?). Event planners have a unique set of skills to run events smoothly and efficiently. 2. You’ll save time and avoid stress. Most of us don’t plan events on a regular basis, which means we’re starting from scratch when it comes to figuring out all the basics. The process can quickly become time-consuming and stressful, and it may not be feasible to dedicate so much of your time to event planning when you’ve got other work to do. Enter event planners. Bringing in a professional lets you focus on other aspects of your life or business while the pro handles the details. A planner can take care of venue research and selection, vendor negotiations, budget management, and more. In turn, you’ll have more time and energy to focus on your other responsibilities. 3. A pro can help you stay within budget. If you’re worried about the cost of hiring an event planner, consider this: A professional planner can help you stay on budget (and even save money) on your event. In this case, the planner’s fee is well worth the splurge. Event planners have a keen eye for finding ways to save money and make the most of your budget. Many planners can secure special insider pricing with vendors and find opportunities to negotiate. A pro can also recommend cost-effective solutions for decorations, catering, and entertainment. 4. Professional event planners bring a fresh perspective. Whether this is your first time planning an event or you’re a DIY event expert, a pro event planner can bring a valuable outside perspective to take your event to the next level. Event planners have an eye for design. They can help you create a cohesive, visually appealing event if you’re not sure where to start. If you have a big idea, but you’re not sure how to pull it off, a pro can help you bring your concept to life and create a unique, memorable event. Consider calling in a pro Event planners aren’t just for weddings and big-budget soirees. A professional offers invaluable expertise and experience that can save you money, eliminate stress, and lead to a better event experience for you and your attendees. Consider hiring a planner to help with your next event. In the meantime, The Events Calendar is in your corner with a full suite of tools to help you manage ticketing, email marketing, virtual events, and more. See a live demo of all our plugins in action. Lauren View author page
