Blog Think of your plumbing system as the digestive system of your home. The internal pipes and valves need to work correctly to ensure your home remains healthy and avoids major emergency repairs. Many preventative measures can be practiced regularly, from basic good habits such as refraining from putting hazardous products down the drain or cleaning your garbage disposal, to more proactive ways you can ensure your family and home stay protected from plumbing disasters. Plumbing problems show up when you least expect them and cause a range of other issues if you don’t catch them in time. The good news is that you can protect yourself from plumbing problems by implementing the plumbing maintenance tips in this article. Knowing what you can and can’t flush down the toilet or rinse down the sink is essential. Certain items are not meant to go through your pipes, and doing so could cause severe damage and require expensive repairs. What Not to Flush Down the Toilet - Feminine hygiene products - Cotton swabs - Cotton balls - Paper towels - Baby wipes (even if they claim to be “flushable”) - Diapers - Cigarette butts - Hair - Kitty litter What Not to Rinse Down the Sink - Paint thinner - Bacon grease - Oil - Large amounts of food waste Regular pipe inspections are important for maintaining your pipes’ health and catching potential issues before they become more significant problems. During an inspection, a professional plumber will inspect all visible piping and any accessible areas, such as crawl spaces under the house or behind walls where problematic areas can sometimes hide. They will also check pressure levels in all water lines and check that all connections are secure. This prevents potential leaks down the line, which could damage both your pipes and other parts of your home. Most store-bought products contain harsh chemicals that can corrode metal pipe joints over time, leading to more severe problems later. Not only that but many of these chemical cleaners can damage plastic pipes found in many modern homes. If you have a clogged drain problem, contact a professional plumber who can safely assess the issue and identify any potential underlying causes without causing further damage to your plumbing system with store-bought solutions. Insulating your pipes is a smart choice if you would like to save money and protect yourself from possible problems. In cold climates, pipe insulation prevents pipes from freezing and cracking. The weather in Fort Myers rarely gets cold enough for that to happen. However, Florida has no shortage of humidity. Insulating your pipes can cut down on condensation, which helps prevent a humid environment in your home. Eliminating moisture prevents mold from growing. Mold causes a stuffy nose and sore throat in most people. In rare cases, though, people can have severe reactions that require a hospital visit. A leak can happen at the worst possible time and cause more harm than you think. It only takes one inch of water to cause up to $25,000 in water damage. If you would like to protect your home and budget from unexpected leaks, installing leak detectors is a smart way to reach your goal. Some leak detectors even send alerts to your phone so that you will know about the problem right away. If you hear a knocking sound when some of your appliances turn off, you might want to install a water hammer arrestor. Appliances that shut off water quickly cause the remaining water to drop back to the valve, which creates this alarming sound. This problem is more than an audible nuisance; it can damage your plumbing system if you don’t address it. If you live in an area with hard water, don’t overlook the advantages of installing a water softener in your home. Hard water contains calcium and other minerals that cause low water pressure, corrosion and damage plumbing fixtures. A water softener solves that problem by removing the minerals and provides cleaner, better-tasting water. During Florida’s hot and humid summers, many people discover water dripping from their toilet to the floor. This dripping happens when the hot air in your home contacts the toilet that contains cool water. Install an anti-sweat valve to prevent sweating and to put this problem in the past. The idea that if something is out of sight, then it is out of mind is a leading cause of significant underground leak damage. Leaks not only cause harmful mold and mildew to grow and increase your monthly water bill but can also cause a pipe to burst, resulting in thousands of dollars of property damage. If you find yourself knee-deep in repair bills, you may ask yourself, could this have been avoided? Enlisting the help of experienced professionals to inspect your pipes is a wise investment and can save you tens of thousands of dollars. Trained experts are equipped with the right tools and advanced equipment to check your home for hidden leaks. They will check your attic, walls, toilets, concrete slabs under your home, and other various places where leaks camouflage themselves. If a leak is detected, they will be able to administer immediate repair and prevent further damage. Backflow prevention requires the installation of devices that prevent your potable water from flowing backward. If your drinking water flows in the opposite direction it is intended, it can become contaminated by harmful liquids, gasses, or solid particles. Consuming water containing these pollutants can not only be detrimental to your health but can also cause severe damage to your pipes due to foreign materials entering. Many states require backflow prevention devices to be installed in every home. While these devices can last for a very long time, they will eventually require repair or replacement. You must be aware of what water is doing on your property. If the quality of your water changes even slightly, this can indicate backflow issues. Foul odors or flavors are common signs you should call an experienced plumber immediately. Backflow Devices That May Require Replacement or Repair - Pressure vacuum breakers - Reduced pressure preventers - Double check valve systems Many homeowners are under the impression their pipes will last forever. Sometimes, this is not the case. Traditional copper piping has proven to deteriorate over time, especially in hotter climates. The effects of the water will eventually break down the pipes and cause them to leak or burst. Replacing your outdated copper pipes with updated PEX pipes can prove to be an impactful improvement to your entire plumbing system. PEX pipes consist of synthetic materials that are highly durable due to the solid cross-linked polythene plastic. Many homeowners are choosing this over copper because of its durability, freeze resistance, and longevity. With more information for ensuring your plumbing system runs smoothly, our experts at Aztec Plumbing & Drains are here to help. To set up an appointment, visit our website or give us a call today! (239) 932-2959
