Stephanie Tsapakis | Published on March 19, 2025 : 2 min read Ever since COVID closed the world for a number of months, online educational opportunities have boomed! Tutoring is no exception, but the market has become over saturated, and it is difficult to know what is credible, and what is… well, crap. Whether it's catching up on challenging subjects or expanding knowledge beyond the classroom, choosing the right platform can significantly impact a child’s academic success. Nowadays, you can google online tutoring services or ask around on social media and be flooded with options. This blog will help you weed through your options to find the right tutor for your child that meets learning, budgeting, and relationship needs! We will explore the benefits of online tutoring, how to search for a tutor that is the right fit for your family, and the top 7 companies recommended for 2025. There is definitely one clear winner for the best online tutoring service, and we will go into detail about what sets them apart from the competition. In addition the the benefits mentioned above, online tutoring has been proven to be effective! Students that receive online tutoring or intervention make the same academic gains across subjects as would their peers who are being tutored in person. Online tutoring is also beneficial for children of various ages. It can be customized to feed the needs of the child based on their attention span, age, and interests. By working online, tutors have access to all kind of fun games and activities that they can customize to maximize learning potential while also making learning fun. Take your time when interviewing and searching for the right fitting tutor. Here are some important things to keep in mind throughout your search: When searching for a tutor, you have the option to contract with an individual, or a company. There are benefits to both, but it is also possible to find a company that provides you with the benefits of a individual while also offering the benefits of a large team. Often times, families will work with an individual for a few months, then there will be the need for a schedule change or the tutor decides to cut down their hours. This can be frustrating for families, and cause the child to lose important time and consistency in their intervention. Companies that offer consistent schedules with the same tutor, while also having a large team of teachers available as subs or replacements is a win-win. You should talk to companies about how often they experience teacher turn-over, and what their process is should you want or need to change to a different provider. If they can offer a seamless transition, that is a huge benefit! Of the top 7 companies listed above, there is one clear winner that takes the prize for best service and most qualified tutors - and that is The LD Expert. LD Expert understands the importance of building a relationship with students. Not only do we want students to learn and grow, but it is also crucial to recognize that learning and growth only happens when students feel safe, and their emotional, physical, and social needs are met. LD Expert prioritizes relationship building with students, and strives to make learning educational and fun! The hiring team at LD Expert also has the highest standards for building a team that is fully credentialed in the programs they use. Finding a tutor that is highly qualified and has experience is very important when searching for a tutor. Being able to trust a company to weed-out the less qualified individuals is highly beneficial and will save you time. Since they have a large team of teachers, they can meet most scheduling needs. They serve students during the school day by contracting with districts or private schools, homeschool students, and privately with families after school hours. They also have tutors across multiple time zones, so they can truly meet your family's specific scheduling needs. Finally, we all know that private specific intervention for learning differences like dyslexia, can be expensive. LD Expert fairly prices their lessons so that they are at or below the national average, while providing education that is well above average! You can rest assured that you are getting the best of the best when you contract with LD Expert. Picking the right tutoring platform online is crucial for your child’s education. Identify the most significant concerns for you: pricing, support, or the availability of subjects. Consider scheduling a free consultation with companies that offer it, like LD Expert. Knowing what questions to ask when interviewing tutors is also important (check out our free resource here). You will want to make sure that they have experience that matches the needs of your child, and that they have gone through the required trainings and certification processes to be able to deliver the highest possible quality instruction. Be sure to choose a tutor that focuses on your child’s individual needs and offers personalized intervention. Finally, the child’s relationship with their tutor will be the best predictor of their success - so remember to choose someone who understands and practices relationship building! Looking for personalized support for your child's learning journey? Our tutoring and dyslexia intervention services are tailored to students with learning differences. Whether it's reading, writing, or other challenges, our team offers one-on-one guidance. Start with a consultation! Answers to frequently asked questions Online tutoring services can benefit children as young as five, especially for foundational skills like reading and math. Typically, students that are between the ages of 4 and 6 tend to do better with shorter sessions. It is recommended that tutoring sessions not last longer than 30 minutes at this age. Choose a tutor that prioritizes their relationship with your child, and knows how to make sessions engaging. They should also understand how to support your child’s physical and sensory needs for movement during their session. If a child needs to spin in their chair, take a movement break. stand while working, or even sit on a bouncy ball during their lesson - that should be accepted and supported! Yes, reputable platforms use secure systems and background-checked tutors to ensure safety. Be sure to ask about this when you interview tutors! No - Tutoring is supplemental to traditional learning. If you are looking for comprehensive instruction, you will need to specify that when meeting with tutors/companies to make sure they can provide that. Certain tutoring companies also provide comprehensive instruction or all subjects, or even individual subjects. However, this is a different type of expectation of the tutor and required significantly more prep time. Thus, the price tag will also likely reflect the amount of work required for this type of teaching. Stay updated with our latest blog posts. Cart Subtotal: $0 Cart is empty Explore
