HR Consulting Businesses for Sale and Investment HR Consulting HR Consulting Company Equity Stake For Sale in Jakarta, Indonesia HR Consulting Company for Sale in Bengaluru, India HR Consulting Business for Sale in Dehradun, India HR Consulting Business for Sale in Dehradun, India HR Consulting Company Equity Stake For Sale in Douala, Cameroon Profitable HR Consulting Company for Sale in Wrocław, Poland HR Consulting Franchise Opportunity 300+ Page Views 100+ Investor Views Profitable HR Consulting Business for Sale in Canberra, Australia HR Consulting Company Equity Stake For Sale in Gurgaon, India Newly Established HR Consulting Business Equity Stake For Sale in Budapest, Hungary Job Portal for Sale in Vienna, Austria Newly Established HR Consulting Business Equity Stake For Sale in Prishtina, Kosovo HR Consulting Company Equity Stake For Sale in Jakarta, Indonesia HR Consulting Company Seeking Loan in Bengaluru, India HR Consulting Company Equity Stake For Sale in Makati, Philippines Asked Questions How many hr consulting businesses for sale and investment are listed on SMERGERS? There are 40 active and verified hr consulting businesses for sale and investment listed on SMERGERS as of 20 December 2025. What level of due diligence does SMERGERS conduct on the businesses/member? SMERGERS scrutinizes all profiles and only features a select group of businesses, investors, advisors that meet a basic requirement. When required, certain members may have submitted some form of proof …read more How active are the business profiles listed on SMERGERS? We regularly filter out businesses which are inactive or have already closed a transaction. Typically, if the business is actively looking to sell/raise capital, the status is shown in green. How can I be sure about privacy and confidentiality? We understand the level of confidentiality required in strategic transactions and we strive to provide a safe and secure experience for our members. Please review our privacy policy. We …read more How can I contact a business listed on SMERGERS? You need to be logged in before you connect with a business. Click here to register and message the business If you are already logged in, please use the contact …read more Should you buy an existing business or start a business from scratch? Buying an existing business is generally an easier way to start a business with an immediate head start. It saves valuable time and administrative efforts, considering starting from scratch is …read more How successful has SMERGERS been in helping its users successfully close a deal? SMERGERS is a discovery and matchmaking platform with a global reach. It helps in connecting Businesses, Investors, Acquirers, Lenders, M&A Advisors and Boutique Investment Banks across locations, industries and transactions. …read more
