Wondering how to sell HR services to employers? Here is some expert HR sales advice from B2B sales expert, Jamie Martin, on selling Human Resources services. Jamie Martin is an award-winning sales professional who is passionate about sales training to help businesses grow by getting better at selling HR services. Discussion On How To Sell HR Services Jamie joined me on the A Better HR Business podcast to talk about: How to map out or define a business’s sales process and sales strategy? How to get more clients from LinkedIn now that it is so crowded since the coronavirus pandemic and what’s the right way to do messaging on LinkedIn? What’s the best way to move someone from a LinkedIn conversation to a phone call? What’s your recommended process for consultants to run a sales call on Zoom with a prospective new B2B client? Many consultants in the HR world love brainstorming, educating, and sharing good ideas. The problem is, they can sometimes give away too much information or planning advice on a sales call to the extent that the prospective new client becomes convinced that they do it themself. What’s your advice on how not to give away the farm on a sales call? How should people handle the old chestnut? – “Send us the details or a proposal and we’ll take a look at it.” If a consulting firm is not converting enough sales calls into new clients, what should they do? Available Now: The B2B Sales Training for HR Consultants Course Selling Human Resources Business Services (Highlights) Want to skip ahead? 04:50 – Customer buying journey & lead generation 07:15 – HR business service sales strategy and process analysis 09:15 – Utilising social media for selling 10:50 – Millennial’s buying behaviour 17:50 – Social media activity and engagement to progress a prospect on LinkedIn to a phone call 20:40 – Top Tips for Video Conference Meetings. Free Download: Correct Careers Coaching – Video Conference Meetings – Top Tips 20:40 – Top Tips for Video Conference Meetings 28:45 – Follow-up process If you want to get in touch with Jamie, visit his website. Available Now: The B2B Sales Training for HR Consultants Course Get Your HR Industry Business Growth Newsletter & Resources Before we get on the podcast interview, are you receiving my free resources and business growth briefings? Over to Jamie (thanks Jamie!) . . . HR Business Service Sales Interview With Jamie Martin About The ‘A Better HR Business’ Podcast I write the Get More HR Clients blog on marketing for HR consultants and marketing for HR Tech companies as a former HR professional who has moved across to the marketing side of business. In my HR marketing podcast, I talk with different HR consultants and HR tech companies from around the world to learn about what they do and how they keep their businesses healthy and moving in the right direction. If you have questions you want me to ask me about growing an HR consultancy or marketing for HR tech companies, just let me know or visit the HR marketing services page. Remember to subscribe to get notified of new episodes. Enjoy the show!
