Plumbing This rigorous Plumbing curriculum prepares learners for a career as skilled plumbers. It covers the concepts technicians need to safely install, test, maintain, and repair many different types of pipe systems for residential, commercial and public buildings. Coverage of math, drawings, code and other critical knowledges skills ensure learners are set up for job success. The four-level Plumbing curriculum complies with the U.S. Department of Labor’s standards for apprenticeship programs Completing the full new edition of the four-part Plumbing curriculum, Level 4 covers the concepts technicians need to safely install, test, maintain and repair many different types of plumbing systems for residential, commercial and public buildings. Click the Purchase button to learn more. Craft Snapshot Deliver instruction using our pre-loaded content and course management tools, streamline training, and track results through the online gradebook. Students learn using the interactive eTextbook and Media Library with Active Figures that bring the material to life, anytime and anywhere they choose. Curriculum Details Total Recommended Hours Competencies & Objectives Lists 5th Edition: 5th Edition: Click here Module ID 02101: In this module, trainees are introduced to the opportunities awaiting well-trained plumbers. Provides a brief history of plumbing and a review of the trade’s current technologies, industries, and associations that make up the modern plumbing profession. Also reviews human relations and safety skills needed to be a successful plumber. Module ID 02102: Introduces plumbing hazards that can lead to serious accidents or injuries. Reviews direct and indirect costs of delays, increased expenses, and loss of life. Provides instruction regarding the proper use of personal protective equipment (PPE) and lists techniques designed to reduce safety risks and workplace injuries. Covers confined-space safety topics, and reviews describes safety hazards related to hand and power tools. Module ID 02103: This module describes hand and power tools used by plumbers to measure, lay out, level, cut, drill, and join different pipe. Along with teaching trainees how to select the appropriate tools for the task, this module teaches them how to avoid some of the most dangerous hazards associated with power tools. Trainees are also instructed in the proper care of different types of hand and power tools. Module ID 02104: Reviews basic math concepts, such as whole numbers, fractions, decimals, and squares, and demonstrates how they apply to on-the-job situations. Teaches trainees how to recognize the type of math necessary for each job, and illustrates methods for measuring pipe length using a variety of tables and illustrations. Module ID 02105: Introduces trainees to the types of plumbing drawings they will encounter, and teaches them how to interpret and apply the information when laying out and installing plumbing systems. Reviews symbols used in plumbing and mechanical drawings and provides examples of isometric, oblique, orthographic, and schematic drawings. Requires trainees to interpret plumbing drawings and to understand the relationship between code requirements and plumbing drawings. Module ID 02106: Introduces trainees to the different types of plastic pipe and fittings used in plumbing applications, including ABS, PVC, CPVC, PE, PEX, and PB. Describes how to measure, cut, join, and support plastic pipe according to manufacturer’s instructions and applicable codes. Also discusses pressure testing of plastic pipe after it is installed. Module ID 02107: Explains sizing, labeling, and applications related to copper tube and fittings. Reviews valves used with copper tube systems, and describes methods for cutting, joining, and installing copper tube. Insulation, pressure testing, seismic codes, and handling and storage requirements are also addressed. Module ID 02108: Describes how hub-and-spigot and no-hub cast iron pipe and fittings are used in DWV systems. Reviews related sizing and labeling standards, types of fittings, and techniques for measuring and cutting cast iron pipe. Also provides instructions for joining, hanging, and testing pipe installations. Module ID 02109: Presents concepts related to threading, labeling, and sizing of steel pipe and fittings. Different types of elbows, couplings, and valves are described. Provides instructions for measuring, cutting, threading, joining, and hanging steel pipe, and reviews corrugated stainless steel tubing. Module ID 02110: Introduces trainees to the primary types of plumbing fixtures, the materials from which they are made, and how they function in typical applications. Also reviews the functionality of specific bathroom and kitchen fixtures, including compression and non-compression faucets, shower and bath fixtures, and exterior utility faucets. Module ID 02111: Explains how DWV systems remove liquid and solid waste safely and effectively. Identifies DWV components, including pipe, drains, traps, and vents. Also describes how plumbers connect these components to municipal and private sewer systems. Module ID 02112: Identifies the major features and functions of components used in water distribution systems, including pipe and fittings, valves, and water heating and treatment equipment. Reviews private and public water sources, and describes how plumbers connect service lines to both types of systems. Module ID 02201: Explains the Pythagorean theorem and reviews methods for laying out square corners. Discusses the techniques used to calculate simple and rolling offsets, as well as offsets on parallel runs of pipe. Module ID 02202: Explains how to identify and interpret civil, architectural, structural, HVAC/mechanical, plumbing, and electrical drawings. Discusses how to ensure accurate dimensions, generate RFIs, and locate plumbing entry points, as well as how to establish piping routes and fixture locations. Isometric drawings, material takeoffs, approved submittal data, and Building Information Management (BIM), are also covered. Module ID 02203: Introduces methods for adjusting structural members, insulating pipe, and installing fire-stopping. Covers reinforcement techniques for modified structural members; how to measure, cut, and install fiberglass and flexible foam insulation; and how to identify walls, floors, and ceilings that require fire- stopping. Module ID 02204: Explains how to locate, install, connect, and test a complete drain, waste, and vent (DWV) system. Discusses how to develop material takeoffs, set up and use levels, locate building sewers and building drains, locate fixtures, and test a DWV system. Module ID 02205: Covers the proper techniques for locating, installing, and connecting roof, floor, and area drains and floor sinks according to code. Discusses waterproof membranes and flashing, drain components, shower pans, trap primers, and proper drain applications. Module ID 02206: Explores the proper techniques for locating, installing, and testing complete water service and distribution systems, including meters, water heaters, water softeners, and hose bibbs. Introduces basic backflow and water hammer prevention, and discusses the installation of shower and tub valves, ice maker and washing machine boxes, and pipe stubouts and supports. Module ID 02207: Reviews types of valves, their components, and applications. Also covers valve servicing. Module ID 02208: Covers the installation of basic plumbing fixtures, including bathtubs, shower stalls, lavatories, sinks, water closets, and urinals. Reviews the installation of associated valves, faucets, and components. Explains how to connect appliances such as dishwashers, food-waste disposers, refrigerators and ice makers, and washing machines. Module ID 02209: Discusses gas-fired, electric, tankless, heat pump, solar thermal, and indirect water heaters, components, and applications. Reviews proper installation and testing techniques and covers the latest code requirements for water heaters. Module ID 02210: Introduces electrical safety and the principles of electricity needed by plumbers including voltage, current, resistance, and power. Includes important electrical formulas, circuitry, and common plumbing-related electrical applications. Module ID 02211: Introduces techniques for safe handling of natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, and fuel oil. Reviews fuel gas and fuel oil safety precautions and potential hazards, applications, systems installation, and testing. Module ID 02301: Reviews math concepts, including weights and measures, area and volume, temperature, pressure, and force. Describes the six simple machines: inclined planes, levers, pulleys, wedges, screws, and wheels and axles. Module ID 02311: Covers the troubleshooting and repair of fixtures, valves, and faucets in accordance with code and safety guidelines. Explains how to diagnose and repair water supply and drainage piping, water heaters, and other appliances and fixtures. Describes the effects of corrosion, freezing, and hard water on plumbing systems. Module ID 02312: Teaches techniques for sizing water supply systems, including calculating system requirements and demand, developed lengths, and pressure drops. Reviews the factors that can reduce efficiency of water supply piping. Introduces different backflow prevention devices and explains how they work, where they are used, and how they are installed in water supply systems. Module ID 02303: Explains how to disinfect, filter, and soften water supply systems. Discusses how to troubleshoot water supply problems, flush out visible contaminants from a plumbing system, and disinfect a potable water plumbing system. Module ID 02305: Reviews the different types of vents that can be installed in a DWV system and explains how they work. Teaches design and installation techniques. Module ID 02306: Explains how to calculate drainage fixture units for waste systems. Reviews how to size drain, waste, and vent (DWV) systems; storm drainage systems; and roof storage and drainage systems. Module ID 02307: Discusses the installation, diagnosis, and repair of pumps, controls, and sumps in sewage and storm water removal systems. Module ID 02308: Discusses corrosive wastes and reviews related safety issues and hazard communications. Explains how to determine when corrosive-resistant waste piping needs to be installed, as well as how to correctly select and properly connect different types of piping. Module ID 02309: Explains the principles of compressed air systems and describes their components and accessories. Reviews installation and periodic servicing of air compressor systems. Module ID 02401: Covers basic business accounting and effective techniques for bidding jobs, controlling costs, and organizing projects. Explains task-planning skills enable plumbers to complete work on time and within budget, as well as what is involved in keeping control of orders, purchases, and deliveries. Module ID 46100: Covers troubleshooting and repair of fixtures, valves, and faucets in accordance with code and safety guidelines. Explains how to diagnose and repair water supply and drainage piping, water heaters, and other appliances and fixtures. Module ID 02403: Describes techniques for sizing water supply systems, including calculating system requirements and demand, developed lengths, and pressure drops. Explains factors that can reduce efficiency of water supply piping, and introduces different backflow prevention devices. Module ID 02404: Describes how to disinfect, filter, and soften water supply systems. Explains how to troubleshoot water supply problems, flush out visible contaminants from a plumbing system, and disinfect a potable water plumbing system. Module ID 02405: Covers the different types of vents that can be installed in a DWV system and explains how they work. Describes a variety of design and installation techniques. Module ID 02406: Explains how to calculate drainage fixture units for waste systems. Describes how to size drain, waste, and vent (DWV) systems; storm drainage systems; and roof storage and drainage systems. Module ID 02408: Describes the installation, diagnosis, and repair of pumps, controls, and sumps in sewage and storm water removal systems. Module ID 02409: Describes corrosive wastes and reviews related safety issues and hazard communications. Explains how to determine when corrosive-resistant waste piping needs to be installed, as well as how to correctly select and properly connect different types of piping. Module ID 02410: Explains the principles of compressed air systems and describes their components and accessories. Also covers installation and periodic servicing of air compressor systems. Module ID 02411: Describes water supply and DWV systems used in parks that serve mobile homes and travel trailers. Module ID 02412: Describes system requirements and professional qualifications stipulated by building codes. Explains common types of medical gas and vacuum systems, and introduces the safety requirements for installing, testing, and servicing these systems. Also described are special requirements for storing and preparing system components, labeling and identification requirements, and techniques for joining copper tubing and fittings. Contributing Subject Matter Experts Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) are a vital part of NCCER’s Curriculum development process. SMEs are construction and maintenance professionals who have journey-level experience and have experience teaching their trades to others. Brad Sims, Lee Company Brent Thompson, Lee Company David Hoover, Putnam Career & Technical Center Frank Guertler, Freelance Harry Rimbey, Sundt Jan Prakke, Lake Mechanical Contractors, Inc. John Stronkowski, Industrial Management & Training Institute Incorporated Jonathan Byrd, Ivey Mechanical Company, LLC Ray Thornton, ABC Southern California Chapter Stanley Cordova, Worth & Company, Inc. NCCERconnect Optimize your classroom time, while accelerating knowledge for learners. NCCERconnect works to provide learners with always-available access to online training materials, including videos, interactives, a rich eText, practice quizzes and other engaging content. Mobile access to the eText also allows for learning on-the-go. Instructors can get started quickly with pre-built assignments, use the robust course tools for class management, and track student participation and results through the online gradebook. Designed to help learner engagement in any classroom, whether a blended, virtual or traditional classroom environment. Instructor Resources Instructor Toolbox NCCER’s Instructor Toolbox provides easy access to important instructional resources for your training program. You’ll find downloadable course planning tools, examples of classroom activities and projects, and instructor tips and best practices to help you enhance your program. Level Tests Level Tests are available for some of our most popular titles. These comprehensive tests combine items from all modules within a level of curriculum into one test. Why Level Tests? Helps instructors who have difficulty scheduling a computer lab for each module test. Provides industry programs with a way for individuals to test out of a level of training for more efficient placement in a position or training program. Provides secondary programs a tool for pre- and post-tests to meet school or state requirements. Pre-tests do not result in a certificate. Provides instructors with instructor level tests for state requirements. Level tests are available in the NCCER Learning Platform under Specialized Tests. Click here for how-to resources. Assessments NCCER’s assessments evaluate the knowledge of an individual in a specific craft area and provide a prescription for upgrade training when needed. All assessments are based upon the NCCER Curriculum and have been developed in conjunction with subject matter experts from the industry. Click the assessment title below to open its specifications.
