Water and Climate Control Systems are in Every Building Open the valve to the world of heating, ventilation and air conditioning. Get your potential flowing as you become a pro at residential plumbing. Heat up your future and learn to control the climate in residential and commercial settings. Master the coinciding electrical and welding skills. Venture into air distribution. Seal the deal with blueprints and drawings. What You Can Learn Units of Study Plumbing Orientation and Safety Blueprint Reading and Plumbing Drawings Drain Waste and Vent Systems Water Distribution Systems Fixtures, Valves and Faucets Water Heaters and Boilers Radiant Heat and Baseboards Hydronic Installation and piping Carbon Pipe and Fittings Plastic Pipe and Fittings Copper Pipe and Fittings Gas Heat HVAC Orientation and Safety Soldering and Brazing Basic Electricity Fundamentals of Refrigeration Refrigeration Processes/Piping Ferrous Metal Piping Practices Fundamentals of Heating Forced-Air Gas Furnaces Electric Heat Air Distribution Systems Air Conditioning Heat Pumps What You Can Earn Available High School Academic Credits At district request, students may earn: English Science Licensing/Industry-Based Certifications Students have opportunities to earn: OSHA 10 Construction Industry EPA Refrigerant Handler Certification Work-Based Learning Organizations that support this program: Isaac Heating and Air John W. Danforth Co. MCC Applied Technology Center Wolf Mechanical Triple O FLOW Mechanical Ryan Plumbing & Heating Gatti Plumbing AireServe Local #13 and Local #46 Where You Can Go Career Opportunities Minimal Requirement Beyond CTE Plumber HVAC Technician Additional Education and/or Experience Foreman Energy Systems Control Tech Mechanical Engineer Postsecondary Pathways Dual Enrollment Monroe Community College Basic Refrigeration Theory (HVA101) Heating Systems and Troubleshooting (HVA103) Electrical Foundations and Troubleshooting (HVA105) Articulation Agreements Alfred State Monroe Community College University of Northwestern Ohio Presentation Hosted by CTE Students Program Overview - PDF Get Started Meet with your school counselor to discuss how Career & Technical Education at WEMOCO can benefit your career development. Your counselor can help you begin the enrollment process.
