Compare Insurance Premiums What Type of Insurance Are You Shopping For? In accordance with California Insurance Code Sections 12959, 10234.6 and 10192.20, we survey insurers licensed to transact insurance in California and ask them to provide their annual premiums for various lines of personal insurance. The links below provide helpful insurance information and an interactive tool for consumers to use to obtain a premium comparison between insurance companies. The results of these surveys are good indicators of the differences in premiums charged by insurance companies. Premium Survey Notes: The results of these surveys are not premium quotes. 2025 Automobile Insurance Online sample rates comparison for Private Passenger Automobile and Motorcycle. 2025 Homeowners Insurance Including Condominiums, Renters and Earthquake Insurance. 2025 Long-Term Care Insurance Insurance that you may need when you are not able to do some of the basic "activities of daily living." 2025 Medicare Supplement Insurance Also known as Medigap insurance. Information on the CA Workers' Compensation Rate Comparison Online rate comparison for the top 50 workers' compensation insurers How Do Rates and/or Premiums Affect What I am Charged? Insurers base the premiums they charge on insurance company rates that are filed with and approved by the California Department of Insurance. The rates form the building blocks of the premium you eventually get charged, and include discounts for some risks and additional charges for other risks. As an example, an insurance company's rate for automobile insurance might include a discount if you have more than one policy with the insurer and an additional charge if your vehicle is a sports car. After determining all the characteristics of your risk, the insurer calculates the actual amount of premium they will charge for your policy. The California Department of Insurance is a regulatory agency and not an insurance agent. As such, we cannot provide actual quotes. These surveys are intended solely as a comparison of premiums amongst some companies. You should be aware that: While the companies surveyed represent over 90% of their respective markets, there are other insurers admitted to sell insurance that are not included in these surveys; and Most importantly, the amount you actually get charged by any particular insurer may be different than the amount you see on our surveys. These surveys provide basic premium information and do not factor in discounts or surcharges which may be applicable to your unique situation. If you have any questions about the information contained in these surveys, please do not hesitate to contact our Consumer Hotline.
