Countdown to Open Enrollment for Individuals & Families Deadline for Jan. 1 Individuals and Families Coverage Deadline for Feb. 1 Individuals and Families Coverage Shop for Plans Shop for your own coverage Medical Dental Other Supplemental (Cancer Treatment, Hospital Indemnity, and more) Plans through your employer Learn about the medical, dental, pharmacy, behavioral, and voluntary benefits your employer may offer. Explore coverage through work Learn How to Buy Health Insurance Types of Dental Insurance Open Enrollment vs. Special Enrollment See all topics Looking for Medicare coverage? Shop for Medicare plans Shop for Plans Shop for Plans Affordable Health Insurance Plans Shopping for your own coverage? Open Enrollment is here and runs until Jan. 15. Our plans come with $0 preventive care 1 , virtual care as low as $0 2 , personalized digital tools, and 24/7/365 service and support. Let’s find a plan that works for you. See if plans are available in your state. Shop and compare Medical plans Plans insured by Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company, Cigna HealthCare of Arizona, Inc., Cigna HealthCare of Florida, Inc., Cigna HealthCare of Georgia, Inc., Cigna HealthCare of Illinois, Inc., Cigna HealthCare of North Carolina, Inc., and Cigna HealthCare of Texas, Inc. 3 Open Enrollment for 2026 Health Insurance Plans Open Enrollment for Cigna Healthcare ® Individual and Family plans runs from Nov. 1, 2025 - Jan. 15, 2026. During this time, you can check if you qualify for financial help, compare plans, and apply. Existing Customers: How Cigna Healthcare supports you Don’t just get insured. Get reassured with a Cigna Healthcare plan. When you enroll, you'll know that you’re covered through quality care, personalized support, and more ways to save. Let us help you get to your healthiest with a Cigna Healthcare Individual and Family plan. Affordable Care Care that's right for you . With virtual urgent care from $0 2 , $0 preventive care visits 1 , $0-$3 for preferred generic prescription drugs on most plans 4 , and access to our Patient Assurance Program 5 , the plans and programs at Cigna Healthcare make it easy for you to get affordable, quality care. 24/7 Virtual Care You're in control . Members have access to MDLIVE's primary care physician, virtual dermatology, and virtual behavioral health networks for routine visits 24/7, as well as virtual urgent care and virtual wellness screenings from $0. 2 Guided Customer Care You’re not alone. Get help from personalized health coaches to manage specific conditions like diabetes. My Personal Champion can assist you with navigating the health care system during a critical situation. Or, speak to specialty pharmacists at our ® Therapeutic Resource Centers. Personalized Digital Tools Make the most of your plan. The myCigna ® website and mobile app 6 help you find quality in-network providers, order and refill prescriptions, pay claims, and more. You also get customized alerts for health coaching, specialized care, and cost savings. Rewards and Discounts Feel great and get rewarded. Take charge of your health by completing your annual wellness exam—and enjoy a reward for doing it. Love a good deal? Our Healthy Rewards discount program ® 7 offers discounts on massages, gym memberships, and more wellness perks to help you feel your best every day. 24/7/365 Customer Service We’re by your side. Have a question about your plan? Need help finding an in-network doctor? With Cigna Healthcare, you can call any time for help with using your plan or navigating your benefits. Plus, if you have a health question, you can speak to a licensed clinician 24 hours a day. Important: Making your first premium payment After you enroll, you must make your first premium payment before your plan can be activated. Here are three easy ways to pay: Pay your premium online Pay by check: Find the mailing address on your bill and follow the instructions Pay by phone: Call 1 (877) 900-1237 (TTY 711), Mon - Fri, 8 am - 8 pm ET Renewing customer? Log in to myCigna to pay your premium. Manage your plan on myCigna: Activate your myCigna account: Visit our Knowledge Center to learn about: Explore affordable health plans by state Policies, Disclosures, and Requirements Looking for Plans Through Your Employer? Continue shopping for your own coverage Dental Coverage Supplemental Coverage 1 Includes eligible in-network preventive care services. Some preventive care services may not be covered, including most immunizations for travel. Reference plan documents for a list of covered and non-covered preventive care services. 2 $0 virtual care (no cost share) for eligible preventive care and Dedicated Virtual Urgent Care for minor acute medical conditions. Not available for all plans. HSA plans and non-minor acute medical care may apply a copay, coinsurance or deductible. Cigna Healthcare provides access to Dedicated Virtual Care through a national telehealth provider, MDLIVE ® located on myCigna, as part of your health plan. Providers are solely responsible for any treatment provided to their patients. Virtual dermatological visits through MDLIVE are completed via asynchronous messaging. Diagnoses requiring testing cannot be confirmed. Customers will be referred to seek in-person care. 3 $0 deductible and $0 copay are available on select Cigna Healthcare individual and family health care plans. Reference plan documents for more information. 4 Health benefit plans may be different, but in general to be eligible for coverage a drug must be approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), prescribed by a health care professional, purchased from a licensed pharmacy, and be medically necessary. If your plan provides coverage for certain prescription drugs with no cost-share, you may have to use an in-network pharmacy to fill the prescription. If you use a pharmacy that does not participate in your plan’s network, your prescription may not be covered or reimbursement may be limited by your plan’s copayment, coinsurance, or deductible requirements. Look at your plan documents for more information about your plan’s prescription drug coverage. In Colorado, the preferred generic prescription drug tier is not available. 5 Discounts available with the Cigna Healthcare Patient Assurance Program. $25 is the maximum out-of-pocket cost for a 30-day supply of covered, eligible insulin and some non-insulin medications. 6 The downloading and use of the myCigna Mobile App is subject to the terms and conditions of the App and the online store from which it is downloaded. Standard mobile phone carrier and data usage charges apply. 7 Healthy Rewards programs are NOT insurance. Rather, these programs give a discount on the cost of certain goods and services. The customer must pay the entire discounted cost. Some Healthy Rewards programs are not available in all states and programs may be discontinued at any time. Participating providers are solely responsible for their goods and services. Product availability may vary by location and plan type and is subject to change. All health insurance policies and health benefit plans contain exclusions and limitations. For costs and details of coverage, review your plan documents or contact a Cigna Healthcare representative. States with Plan Availability for 2026 For available plans in all other areas, call us at I want to... Audiences Manage Your Account Cigna Healthcare Information The Cigna Group Information Disclaimer Product availability may vary by location and plan type and is subject to change. All health insurance policies and health benefit plans contain exclusions and limitations. For costs and details of coverage, review your plan documents or contact a Cigna Healthcare representative. All Cigna Healthcare products and services are provided exclusively by or through operating subsidiaries of The Cigna Group, including Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company, Cigna HealthCare of Arizona, Inc., Cigna HealthCare of Florida, Inc., Cigna HealthCare of Georgia, Inc., Cigna HealthCare of Illinois, Inc., Cigna HealthCare of North Carolina, Inc. and Cigna HealthCare of Texas, Inc. Group health insurance and health benefit plans are insured or administered by CHLIC, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company (CGLIC), or their affiliates (see a listing of the legal entities that insure or administer group HMO, dental HMO, and other products or services in your state). Accidental Injury, Critical Illness, and Hospital Care plans or insurance policies are distributed exclusively by or through operating subsidiaries of The Cigna Group, are administered by Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company, and are insured by either (i) Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company (Bloomfield, CT). The Cigna Healthcare name, logo, and other Cigna Healthcare marks are owned by Cigna Intellectual Property, Inc. This website is not intended for residents of New Mexico. La aseguradora publica el formulario traducido para fines informativos y la versión en inglés prevalece para fines de solicitud e interpretación. The insurer is issuing the translated form on an informational basis and the English version is controlling for the purposes of application and interpretation.
