“Very thorough, reliable and professional! Have been using them for at least 10 years.” “Have had my home cleaned for 15 years. They are the best cleaners I have had in that time. For reference, it’s a large home – 6 bedrooms, 5 baths, 2 kitchens, and every part of the home is cleaned just as well as another. Highly recommend!” “We have used this cleaning service for several years and are very pleased with their work! Highly recommend!!” “They did an amazing job cleaning up the house. Everything was dusted and all the toys from under the sofas were collected and placed in bags.” “Very friendly, very professional, always quick to reply when i call, very hard workers, left the house clean and smelling fresh. Very willing to work with our busy schedules. Near perfect in every regard, and we are hiring them on the regular. Thanks!” “Marta did a wonderful job on the first cleaning and is very competitively priced for this area. I would highly recommend her.” “This was by far the friendliest cleaning crew I have ever dealt with. Very professional and made themselves available last minute so that I could have a professionally cleaned house before out of town family arrived. I am going to continue to use them and already made my next appointment. Marta is a lovely person, returned my call immediately and she and her crew did an immaculate job! I am so thrilled I found this wonderful cleaning service!!” “I recommend QC cleaning, punctual, clean very well, and used special products in my house, very satisfied.” “We just had our first time cleaning with them and we couldn’t be happier! In fact, weekly service begins this week and I can’t wait. Little details like creating a rose with the toilet paper and displaying our throw blankets nicely on the couch were a very classy touch! I have already recommended them to my sister-in-law and there will be more recommendations to follow. They were right on-time too! Two thumbs way up!” “Marta and (Mimi) were fantastic. I thought I kept a clean house, but after Marta was finished, I can say my house has never been cleaner. I really liked the attention to detail that she gave each task. She cleaned everything, windows, microwave, blinds….of course bathrooms, floors, dusting and vacuuming. Marta and her crew are great. I look forward to having her back every other week and I look forward to my weekends again. Than you QC Cleaning!”
