Game Rating Information The ESRB rating system is an unbiased, standardized way to help you determine whether an Xbox game is appropriate for your child. Ratings are determined by the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB). The ESRB is a self-regulatory body that independently applies and enforces ratings, advertising guidelines, and online privacy principles adopted by the industry. Visit esrb.org/ratings-guide/ for more information. ESRB Rating Symbols EVERYONE Titles rated E (Everyone) have content that may be suitable for all ages. Titles in this category may contain minimal cartoon, fantasy or mild violence and/or infrequent use of mild language. EVERYONE 10+ Titles rated E10+ (Everyone 10+) have content that may be suitable for ages 10 and older. Titles in this category may contain more cartoon, fantasy or mild violence, mild language, and/or minimal suggestive themes. TEEN Titles rated T (Teen) have content that may be suitable for ages 13 and older. Titles in this category may contain violence, suggestive themes, crude humor, minimal blood, simulated gambling, and/or infrequent use of strong language. MATURE Titles rated M (Mature) have content that may be suitable for persons ages 17 and older. Titles in this category may contain intense violence, blood and gore, sexual content, and/or strong language. RATING PENDING Titles listed as RP (Rating Pending) have been submitted to the ESRB and are awaiting final rating. This symbol appears only in advertising prior to a game's release. ADULTS ONLY Titles rated AO (Adults Only) have content that should only be played by persons 18 years and older. Titles in this category may include prolonged scenes of intense violence and/or graphic sexual content and nudity. Microsoft does not support AO titles. ESRB Content Descriptors Alcohol Reference Reference to and/or images of alcoholic beverages Animated Blood Cartoon or pixilated depictions of blood Blood Depictions of blood Blood and Gore Depictions of blood or the mutilation of body parts Comic Mischief Scenes depicting slapstick or gross vulgar humor Crude Humor Moderately vulgar antics, including bathroom humor Drug Reference Reference to and/or images of illegal drugs Fantasy Violence Violent actions of a fantasy nature, involving human or non-human characters in situations easily distinguishable from real life Gambling Themes Prominently featured images or activities that are typically associated with real-world gambling even if they are not directly simulating a gambling experience Intense Violence Graphic and realistic-looking depictions of physical conflict. May involve extreme and/or realistic blood, gore, weapons, and depictions of human injury and death Language Mild references to profanity, sexuality, violence, alcohol, or drug use Lyrics Mild references to profanity, sexuality, violence, alcohol, or drug use in music Mature Humor Vulgar and/or crude jokes and antics including "bathroom" humor Nudity Graphic or prolonged depictions of nudity Partial Nudity Brief and mild depictions of nudity Real Gambling Betting like behavior Sexual Content Non-explicit depictions of sexual behavior, possibly including partial nudity Sexual Themes References to sex or sexuality Sexual Violence Depictions of rape or other sexual acts Simulated gambling Player can gamble without betting or wagering real cash or currency. Typically assigned to simulations of casino-based gambling. Strong Language Profanity and explicit references to sexuality, violence, alcohol, or drug use Strong Lyrics Profanity and explicit references to sex, violence, alcohol, or drug use in music Strong Sexual Content Graphic depiction of sexual behavior, possibly including nudity Suggestive Themes Mild provocative references or materials Tobacco Reference Reference to and/or images of tobacco products Use of Alcohol The consumption of alcoholic beverages Use of Drugs The consumption or use of illegal drugs Use of Tobacco The consumption of tobacco products Violence Scenes involving aggressive conflict Violent references References to violent acts Interactive Elements In-Game Purchases Contains in-game offers to purchase digital goods or premiums with real world currency, including but not limited to bonus levels, skins, music, virtual coins and other forms of in-game currency, subscriptions, season passes and upgrades (e.g., to disable ads). Shares Location Includes the ability to display the user’s location to other users of the app. In-Game Purchases (Includes Random Items) Contains in-game offers to purchase digital goods or premiums with real world currency (or with virtual coins or other forms of in-game currency that can be purchased with real world currency) for which the player doesn’t know prior to purchase the specific digital goods or premiums they will be receiving (e.g., loot boxes, item packs, mystery awards). Unrestricted Internet Provides unrestricted access to the internet (e.g., browser, search engine). Users Interact Indicates possible exposure to unfiltered/uncensored user-generated content, including user-to-user communications and media sharing via social media and networks. Xbox Family Settings app Easily manage your children’s gaming activities on Xbox consoles, all from your phone and in real time.
