Federal and state tax news Latest federal and state tax news articles Article Tax & Accounting December 04, 2025 CCH® AnswerConnect and the no taxes on overtime pay rule Learn how CCH® AnswerConnect helps accountants interpret the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA) overtime pay provision with clarity, speed, and confidence. Article Tax & Accounting December 03, 2025 Combatting misinformation about personal car loan interest deductions Navigate misinformation about the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA) with easy access to auto loan interest deduction rules and which qualifying vehicles apply. Article Compliance Tax & Accounting November 11, 2025 2025 Year-end briefing Read the latest tax briefing recapping this year's tax policy changes and gain insight into planning strategies and techniques available through the end of year. Article Tax & Accounting Updated September 26, 2025 Modernizing payments: The shift from paper checks to digital The US Treasury's mandate to end paper checks by 9/30/25 will impact all tax preparers. Learn how to best support your clients during this transition. Article Tax & Accounting August 21, 2025 Key tax provisions for large corporations in the OBBBA legislation Breakdown of the most relevant changes from OBBBA and what they mean for corporate taxpayers Article Tax & Accounting Updated July 29, 2025 Federal payments go paperless: Key provisions of the recent executive order Tax preparers and their clients will soon be impacted by Executive Order 14247 which eliminates paper refund checks. Read to learn more. Article Tax & Accounting May 16, 2025 What states offer scholarship contribution tax credits? Many states have income tax credits for contributions to nonprofits that provide scholarships to eligible K-12 students to attend qualified schools. Article Tax & Accounting May 12, 2025 A closer look: Discussion and analysis of current accounting and reporting issues related to tariffs Recent significant changes in tariffs initiated by the U.S. government have consumed global news and introduced significant uncertainty into business operations and financial markets. Accounting and audit news Latest accounting and audit news articles Article Compliance Corporate Tax & Accounting September 04, 2025 Why corporations need a dedicated tax research solution, now more than ever Corporate tax research demands accuracy. Learn why dedicated tools beat outdated methods for compliance and decision-making. Article Tax & Accounting August 25, 2025 Improve efficiency, client service, and performance with integrated client data With CCH Axcess's cloud-based client database, you enter client details once and they automatically appear wherever your team needs them. Article Tax & Accounting May 12, 2025 A closer look: Discussion and analysis of current accounting and reporting issues related to tariffs Recent significant changes in tariffs initiated by the U.S. government have consumed global news and introduced significant uncertainty into business operations and financial markets. Article Tax & Accounting April 23, 2025 2025 post-filing season update The 2025 tax filing season passed without much fanfare. Congress took no significant direct action, although the foundation has been laid for tax legislation to be moved before the end of the year. Article Tax & Accounting April 11, 2025 Demystifying large language models As AI continues to evolve, staying informed about these technologies will be crucial for maximizing their potential. Article Tax & Accounting April 11, 2025 Mastering prompt writing for large language models By understanding how LLMs and RAG models work and crafting well-thought-out prompts, you can significantly improve the quality of the answers you receive from generative AI tools. Article Tax & Accounting February 27, 2025 Transforming audit quality and efficiency: A firm's journey with CCH Axcess CCH Axcess Audit can be transformational in achieving goals, and features in the next release enhance capabilities further. Article Tax & Accounting January 10, 2025 Revealing the truth: Cloud security in the modern era Let's explore the myth that cloud solutions are not secure and uncover the reality of the robust security measures that cloud-based solutions offer. All tax and accounting articles Latest tax and accounting articles Article Tax & Accounting Updated December 08, 2025 What's new with CCH Axcess™ Tax This year, CCH Axcess customers will experience faster workflows, improved efficiency and greater support. Article Tax & Accounting December 04, 2025 CCH® AnswerConnect and the no taxes on overtime pay rule Learn how CCH® AnswerConnect helps accountants interpret the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA) overtime pay provision with clarity, speed, and confidence. Article Tax & Accounting December 04, 2025 Navigating the One Big Beautiful Bill Act health coverage changes with CCH® AnswerConnect Discover how the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA) impacts the Premium Tax Credit and how CCH® AnswerConnect helps you stay ahead with clarity and confidence. Article Tax & Accounting December 03, 2025 Combatting misinformation about personal car loan interest deductions Navigate misinformation about the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA) with easy access to auto loan interest deduction rules and which qualifying vehicles apply. Article Tax & Accounting December 03, 2025 CCH® AnswerConnect simplifies tax provisions in the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA) Discover how CCH® AnswerConnect helps you analyze key individual tax provisions in the One Big Beautiful Bill Act for faster, accurate tax research. Article Compliance Tax & Accounting November 18, 2025 Building trust and empowering staff: Why usable and reliable tax research matters more than ever Tax professionals need quick answers they can trust. From advising high-net-worth clients to navigating complex compliance issues, the tools we use to research tax law can make or break our effectiveness. Article Compliance Tax & Accounting November 11, 2025 2025 Year-end briefing Read the latest tax briefing recapping this year's tax policy changes and gain insight into planning strategies and techniques available through the end of year. Article Tax & Accounting November 06, 2025 Integrating CCH Axcess with enterprise software via APIs The CCH Axcess Open Integration APIs enable firms to integrate their core systems and data sources into a unified, intelligent ecosystem. Sign up the monthly e-newsletter roundup of tax-related news and analysis.
