8 Gardening Shows to Add to Your Watchlist This Season From seed catalogs and planting guides to blogs and books, there’s no shortage of gardening resources out there for amateur and professional green thumbs alike. But have you ever explored the wonderful realm of gardening shows? When you aren’t able to get your hands in the dirt, watching some of these inspiring shows is the next best thing. Here are eight gardening shows to add to your watchlist this season. 1. Gardeners’ World Apple TV / Amazon Prime Accompanied by fellow friends and enthusiasts, renowned British legend Monty Don hosts this long-running gardening show. Each episode shares three different stories, often interspersed with clips of Monty Don as he tends to the garden he and his wife have been growing, caring for and expanding for the last 20 years. If you’re looking for the right balance of inspiration and tangible advice, this is the show for you. See more: How to Start a Pollinator Garden This Spring 2. The Instant Gardener Apple TV Garden designer Danny Clarke is in charge of “The Instant Gardener.” The nuts and bolts of this show revolve around helping revitalize gardens that are in serious need of a little TLC. But there’s a catch – Clarke will only spend a single day on each project. Intrigued? You can stream this quick-paced gardening show on Apple TV. Chances are you’ll even walk away with ideas and inspiration for your own backyard. 3. Grow, Cook, Eat Amazon Prime Do you grow your own food? Or want to? If so, you’ll love soaking up inspiration from “Grow, Cook, Eat.” This practical series is all about growing an edible garden, whether you’re working with containers on an apartment balcony or a hobby farm complete with polytunnels and greenhouses. Each episode will walk you through growing a particular vegetable from seed all the way to plate. See more: How to Grow and Harvest Your Own Strawberries 4. The Victory Garden Amazon Prime Australian horticulturist Jamie Durie knows his stuff. In “The Victory Garden,” which streams on Amazon Prime with a PBS Living subscription, viewers can tag along as Durie explores gardens all over the world. Along the way, he shares his wealth of knowledge on everything from creating thriving garden beds to preventing and protecting your plants from pests and disease. It’s a must-watch to add to your list of gardening shows! 5. Big Dreams, Small Spaces Amazon Prime Video This list of gardening shows would hardly be complete without at least one more Monty Don show. This time, he’s back at it with “Big Dreams, Small Spaces.” Unlike “Gardeners’ World,” this show follows along as he helps British residents achieve their home gardening dreams. This show is particularly inspiring for anyone who has a small space to work with and struggles to see it through to fruition. Watching an episode or two of “Big Dreams, Small Spaces” could be just what you need to jumpstart your own home gardening project. 6. The Science of Gardening Amazon Prime Video A little more left-brained? You’ll love “The Science of Gardening.” This show takes a deep dive into all the “-ologies” you could ever want. We’re talking everything from plant physiology and biology to hydrology and ecology. While you will definitely walk away from this one feeling like you gained a wheelbarrow of knowledge, you should also be able to take what you learned and use it to put beautiful and sustainable practices into place in your own garden. 7. Growing Floret Magnolia Network / HBO Max / discovery+ Are you more keen on growing flowers than fruit? “Growing Floret” takes viewers through the stunning transformation of Floret, a small, family-run operation in Washington’s Skagit Valley, as owners Erin and Chris take on an additional 24 acres of land in dire need of restoration. The four-part documentary series was a massive success upon release (and nominated for two Emmy Awards), so you know it’s well worth the watch. See more: How to Plant and Grow a Cut Flower Garden 8. The Big Flower Fight Netflix “The Big Flower Fight” on Netflix may not be your ordinary gardening show. But it is a nice option for anyone looking for a little light-hearted floral inspiration. Watch as 10 contestants compete to create wild, large-scale floral arrangements in just about every shape, size and color you can imagine. And you could walk away more inspired to dapple your own garden with more flowers this year. Join the discussion and tell us your opinion. Homegrown is on Discovery + […] time to start planning your vegetable garden. Remember that with proper care and attention, even beginners can successfully grow a variety of delicious and nutritious vegetables right in their own […] Where is Garden time TV. […] The Vegetable Gardening Show intends to expand its reach globally, reaching out to gardening communities across borders. By […] We need gardening shows 8 Gardening Shows to Add to Your Watchlist This Season From seed catalogs and planting guides to blogs and books, there’s no shortage of gardening resources out there for amateur and professional green thumbs alike. But have you ever explored the wonderful realm of gardening shows? When you aren’t able to get your hands in the dirt, watching some of these inspiring shows is the next best thing. Here are eight gardening shows to add to your watchlist this season. 1. Gardeners’ World Apple TV / Amazon Prime Accompanied by fellow friends and enthusiasts, renowned British legend Monty Don hosts this long-running gardening show. Each episode shares three different stories, often interspersed with clips of Monty Don as he tends to the garden he and his wife have been growing, caring for and expanding for the last 20 years. If you’re looking for the right balance of inspiration and tangible advice, this is the show for you. See more: How to Start a Pollinator Garden This Spring 2. The Instant Gardener Apple TV Garden designer Danny Clarke is in charge of “The Instant Gardener.” The nuts and bolts of this show revolve around helping revitalize gardens that are in serious need of a little TLC. But there’s a catch – Clarke will only spend a single day on each project. Intrigued? You can stream this quick-paced gardening show on Apple TV. Chances are you’ll even walk away with ideas and inspiration for your own backyard. 3. Grow, Cook, Eat Amazon Prime Do you grow your own food? Or want to? If so, you’ll love soaking up inspiration from “Grow, Cook, Eat.” This practical series is all about growing an edible garden, whether you’re working with containers on an apartment balcony or a hobby farm complete with polytunnels and greenhouses. Each episode will walk you through growing a particular vegetable from seed all the way to plate. See more: How to Grow and Harvest Your Own Strawberries 4. The Victory Garden Amazon Prime Australian horticulturist Jamie Durie knows his stuff. In “The Victory Garden,” which streams on Amazon Prime with a PBS Living subscription, viewers can tag along as Durie explores gardens all over the world. Along the way, he shares his wealth of knowledge on everything from creating thriving garden beds to preventing and protecting your plants from pests and disease. It’s a must-watch to add to your list of gardening shows! 5. Big Dreams, Small Spaces Amazon Prime Video This list of gardening shows would hardly be complete without at least one more Monty Don show. This time, he’s back at it with “Big Dreams, Small Spaces.” Unlike “Gardeners’ World,” this show follows along as he helps British residents achieve their home gardening dreams. This show is particularly inspiring for anyone who has a small space to work with and struggles to see it through to fruition. Watching an episode or two of “Big Dreams, Small Spaces” could be just what you need to jumpstart your own home gardening project. 6. The Science of Gardening Amazon Prime Video A little more left-brained? You’ll love “The Science of Gardening.” This show takes a deep dive into all the “-ologies” you could ever want. We’re talking everything from plant physiology and biology to hydrology and ecology. While you will definitely walk away from this one feeling like you gained a wheelbarrow of knowledge, you should also be able to take what you learned and use it to put beautiful and sustainable practices into place in your own garden. 7. Growing Floret Magnolia Network / HBO Max / discovery+ Are you more keen on growing flowers than fruit? “Growing Floret” takes viewers through the stunning transformation of Floret, a small, family-run operation in Washington’s Skagit Valley, as owners Erin and Chris take on an additional 24 acres of land in dire need of restoration. The four-part documentary series was a massive success upon release (and nominated for two Emmy Awards), so you know it’s well worth the watch. See more: How to Plant and Grow a Cut Flower Garden 8. The Big Flower Fight Netflix “The Big Flower Fight” on Netflix may not be your ordinary gardening show. But it is a nice option for anyone looking for a little light-hearted floral inspiration. Watch as 10 contestants compete to create wild, large-scale floral arrangements in just about every shape, size and color you can imagine. And you could walk away more inspired to dapple your own garden with more flowers this year. Join the discussion and tell us your opinion. Homegrown is on Discovery + […] time to start planning your vegetable garden. Remember that with proper care and attention, even beginners can successfully grow a variety of delicious and nutritious vegetables right in their own […] Where is Garden time TV. […] The Vegetable Gardening Show intends to expand its reach globally, reaching out to gardening communities across borders. By […] We need gardening shows
