6 Gardening Shows to Watch for Backyard Inspiration We could all use a little help sprucing up our home gardens. Stream these shows and spark your imagination. As the backyard gardening season starts wrapping up in many areas across the country, now is the perfect time to reflect on how well your garden actually served your needs. Were your tomatoes as fruitful as they could have been or do they need more sunlight? Did you end up with a bumper crop of zucchini and want to cut down for next year? Or maybe you’re interested in getting more color into your space and want to figure out which flowers to plant and where. (Pro tip: Nasturtiums will draw pests away from your vegetables, and they’re edible as well, if you fancy a beautiful salad.) But if you’re not sure where to start on your garden redesign, we’ve got you covered. Here are some of the best shows out there to get you started with a little garden inspiration. Before you get planting, start streaming. If you’re looking to take your backyard from frumpy to full-on farming, this is your show. Host Jamila Norman is a backyard farming expert, turning rundown patches of grass into urban oases. Norman’s calming voice and bright smile help showcase just how much is possible, even in small areas. Norman’s own stomping grounds are a 1.2-acre farm in the middle of Atlanta, where she cultivates crops for her family and the local community. Now, with Homegrown, she’s spreading the garden love to an even wider audience. If you’re looking to get more out of your vegetable garden next year, you’ll pick up tons of tips here. This is the show that will remind you to slow down, take your time and dream big! Do you want to turn your yard into a miniature village, complete with a winding train rambling through the brush? That’s just another day for host Monty Don. The families that he visits across England aren’t star gardeners, just regular folks looking to make a transformation. With his can-do attitude, Don is the perfect person to jump right in and make their dreams come true. What’s great about Big Dreams, Small Spaces is the timeline. Each episode spans a full year, and viewers get to see the work that’s required to create a dream space. It will give you a realistic starting point, while also encouraging you to see what you can create with a little time and creativity. Maybe transforming your whole garden all at once is too big of an undertaking. Instead, you might want to take it one step, or one veggie, at a time. Enter hosts Karen O’Donohoe and Michael Kelly, who break down how to grow one plant per episode. You can hone in on getting juicer tomatoes, spicier chilis or more bountiful potatoes, dealing with one section of the garden at a time. And the best part: At the end of each episode, O’Donohoe and Kelly head into the kitchen for a taste test, sharing some of the best ways to cook the vegetables to bring out their natural flavors. You don’t need a huge plot of land with this approach. Heck, you don’t even need a full yard. With a few planters on a stoop, balcony or windowsill, you can still be a gardener. Who better than Martha Stewart to help calm your gardening woes? Not only does Stewart help out people who come to her with problems, you’ll also learn her tips and tricks—like how to get the pomegranate seeds out of the pith without mashing the whole thing to bits—alongside celebrity guests. And yes, her pal Snoop Dogg does show up in an episode. And yes, they do talk about planting “herbs.” It’s not just that Stewart has the answers to all of your gardening questions. It’s that this show highlights Stewart at her finest: funny, real and off-the-cuff. She’s not stuck behind an island in a fake kitchen. Here, she’s outside and doing the work alongside you, making you laugh the whole way. Maybe you had big dreams for your garden once upon a time. You optimistically bought a few plants, some gloves and made plans to get down to work. But then…life happened. And before you knew it, your garden was overgrown, and the longer you left it, the harder it became to tackle. That’s where Jamie Durie comes in. He specializes in transforming out-of-control gardens into something not just manageable but beautiful. Durie isn’t afraid to take on the big challenges. He’ll fell trees, whack through weeds and brambles and get down in the muck as he makes over a whole backyard. If you need an extra push to take on a big project, Durie is your source for a big boost. Sometimes, you just need to sit back and marvel. If a trip to the English countryside isn’t feasible for you right now, this is the next best thing. Host Carol Klein is an enthusiastic and helpful guide, showcasing jaw-dropping gardens across Britain. From pastoral villas to an actual castle, Klein is your tour guide on these sensational properties, happy to share not just the spaces but the personalities of the gardens themselves. And while most of us don’t have the space that, say, a castle might have, this show is great to get inspiration for your flower gardens. The tight shots of brilliant buds and perfect petals are gorgeous enough on their own. But if they can help you plan out your own backyard eden? Brilliant, as Klein might say. This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Follow us This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License. Want to republish a Modern Farmer story? We are happy for Modern Farmer stories to be shared, and encourage you to republish our articles for your audience. When doing so, we ask that you follow these guidelines: Please credit us and our writers For the author byline, please use “Author Name, Modern Farmer.” At the top of our stories, if on the web, please include this text and link: “This story was originally published by Modern Farmer.” Please make sure to include a link back to either our home page or the article URL. At the bottom of the story, please include the following text: “Modern Farmer is a nonprofit initiative dedicated to raising awareness and catalyzing action at the intersection of food, agriculture, and society. Read more at <link>Modern Farmer</link>.” Use our widget We’d like to be able to track our stories, so we ask that if you republish our content, you do so using our widget (located on the left hand side of the article). The HTML code has a built-in tracker that tells us the data and domain where the story was published, as well as view counts. Check the image requirements It’s your responsibility to confirm you're licensed to republish images in our articles. Some images, such as those from commercial providers, don't allow their images to be republished without permission or payment. Copyright terms are generally listed in the image caption and attribution. You are welcome to omit our images or substitute with your own. Charts and interactive graphics follow the same rules. Don’t change too much. Or, ask us first. Articles must be republished in their entirety. It’s okay to change references to time (“today” to “yesterday”) or location (“Iowa City, IA” to “here”). But please keep everything else the same. If you feel strongly that a more material edit needs to be made, get in touch with us at [email protected]. We’re happy to discuss it with the original author, but we must have prior approval for changes before publication. Special cases Extracts. You may run the first few lines or paragraphs of the article and then say: “Read the full article at Modern Farmer” with a link back to the original article. Quotes. You may quote authors provided you include a link back to the article URL. Translations. These require writer approval. To inquire about translation of a Modern Farmer article, contact us at [email protected] Signed consent / copyright release forms. These are not required, provided you are following these guidelines. Print. Articles can be republished in print under these same rules, with the exception that you do not need to include the links. Tag us When sharing the story on social media, please tag us using the following: - Twitter (@ModFarm) - Facebook (@ModernFarmerMedia) - Instagram (@modfarm) Use our content respectfully Modern Farmer is a nonprofit and as such we share our content for free and in good faith in order to reach new audiences. Respectfully, No selling ads against our stories. It’s okay to put our stories on pages with ads. Don’t republish our material wholesale, or automatically; you need to select stories to be republished individually. You have no rights to sell, license, syndicate, or otherwise represent yourself as the authorized owner of our material to any third parties. This means that you cannot actively publish or submit our work for syndication to third party platforms or apps like Apple News or Google News. We understand that publishers cannot fully control when certain third parties automatically summarize or crawl content from publishers’ own sites. Keep in touch We want to hear from you if you love Modern Farmer content, have a collaboration idea, or anything else to share. As a nonprofit outlet, we work in service of our community and are always open to comments, feedback, and ideas. Contact us at [email protected]. by Emily Baron Cadloff, Modern Farmer October 10, 2021 Modern Farmer Weekly Solutions Hub Innovations, ideas and inspiration. Actionable solutions for a resilient food system. Explore Explore other topics Share With Us We want to hear from Modern Farmer readers who have thoughtful commentary, actionable solutions, or helpful ideas to share. Submit Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and are used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. 6 Gardening Shows to Watch for Backyard Inspiration We could all use a little help sprucing up our home gardens. Stream these shows and spark your imagination. As the backyard gardening season starts wrapping up in many areas across the country, now is the perfect time to reflect on how well your garden actually served your needs. Were your tomatoes as fruitful as they could have been or do they need more sunlight? Did you end up with a bumper crop of zucchini and want to cut down for next year? Or maybe you’re interested in getting more color into your space and want to figure out which flowers to plant and where. (Pro tip: Nasturtiums will draw pests away from your vegetables, and they’re edible as well, if you fancy a beautiful salad.) But if you’re not sure where to start on your garden redesign, we’ve got you covered. Here are some of the best shows out there to get you started with a little garden inspiration. Before you get planting, start streaming. If you’re looking to take your backyard from frumpy to full-on farming, this is your show. Host Jamila Norman is a backyard farming expert, turning rundown patches of grass into urban oases. Norman’s calming voice and bright smile help showcase just how much is possible, even in small areas. Norman’s own stomping grounds are a 1.2-acre farm in the middle of Atlanta, where she cultivates crops for her family and the local community. Now, with Homegrown, she’s spreading the garden love to an even wider audience. If you’re looking to get more out of your vegetable garden next year, you’ll pick up tons of tips here. This is the show that will remind you to slow down, take your time and dream big! Do you want to turn your yard into a miniature village, complete with a winding train rambling through the brush? That’s just another day for host Monty Don. The families that he visits across England aren’t star gardeners, just regular folks looking to make a transformation. With his can-do attitude, Don is the perfect person to jump right in and make their dreams come true. What’s great about Big Dreams, Small Spaces is the timeline. Each episode spans a full year, and viewers get to see the work that’s required to create a dream space. It will give you a realistic starting point, while also encouraging you to see what you can create with a little time and creativity. Maybe transforming your whole garden all at once is too big of an undertaking. Instead, you might want to take it one step, or one veggie, at a time. Enter hosts Karen O’Donohoe and Michael Kelly, who break down how to grow one plant per episode. You can hone in on getting juicer tomatoes, spicier chilis or more bountiful potatoes, dealing with one section of the garden at a time. And the best part: At the end of each episode, O’Donohoe and Kelly head into the kitchen for a taste test, sharing some of the best ways to cook the vegetables to bring out their natural flavors. You don’t need a huge plot of land with this approach. Heck, you don’t even need a full yard. With a few planters on a stoop, balcony or windowsill, you can still be a gardener. Who better than Martha Stewart to help calm your gardening woes? Not only does Stewart help out people who come to her with problems, you’ll also learn her tips and tricks—like how to get the pomegranate seeds out of the pith without mashing the whole thing to bits—alongside celebrity guests. And yes, her pal Snoop Dogg does show up in an episode. And yes, they do talk about planting “herbs.” It’s not just that Stewart has the answers to all of your gardening questions. It’s that this show highlights Stewart at her finest: funny, real and off-the-cuff. She’s not stuck behind an island in a fake kitchen. Here, she’s outside and doing the work alongside you, making you laugh the whole way. Maybe you had big dreams for your garden once upon a time. You optimistically bought a few plants, some gloves and made plans to get down to work. But then…life happened. And before you knew it, your garden was overgrown, and the longer you left it, the harder it became to tackle. That’s where Jamie Durie comes in. He specializes in transforming out-of-control gardens into something not just manageable but beautiful. Durie isn’t afraid to take on the big challenges. He’ll fell trees, whack through weeds and brambles and get down in the muck as he makes over a whole backyard. If you need an extra push to take on a big project, Durie is your source for a big boost. Sometimes, you just need to sit back and marvel. If a trip to the English countryside isn’t feasible for you right now, this is the next best thing. Host Carol Klein is an enthusiastic and helpful guide, showcasing jaw-dropping gardens across Britain. From pastoral villas to an actual castle, Klein is your tour guide on these sensational properties, happy to share not just the spaces but the personalities of the gardens themselves. And while most of us don’t have the space that, say, a castle might have, this show is great to get inspiration for your flower gardens. The tight shots of brilliant buds and perfect petals are gorgeous enough on their own. But if they can help you plan out your own backyard eden? Brilliant, as Klein might say. This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Follow us This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License. Want to republish a Modern Farmer story? We are happy for Modern Farmer stories to be shared, and encourage you to republish our articles for your audience. When doing so, we ask that you follow these guidelines: Please credit us and our writers For the author byline, please use “Author Name, Modern Farmer.” At the top of our stories, if on the web, please include this text and link: “This story was originally published by Modern Farmer.” Please make sure to include a link back to either our home page or the article URL. At the bottom of the story, please include the following text: “Modern Farmer is a nonprofit initiative dedicated to raising awareness and catalyzing action at the intersection of food, agriculture, and society. Read more at <link>Modern Farmer</link>.” Use our widget We’d like to be able to track our stories, so we ask that if you republish our content, you do so using our widget (located on the left hand side of the article). The HTML code has a built-in tracker that tells us the data and domain where the story was published, as well as view counts. Check the image requirements It’s your responsibility to confirm you're licensed to republish images in our articles. Some images, such as those from commercial providers, don't allow their images to be republished without permission or payment. Copyright terms are generally listed in the image caption and attribution. You are welcome to omit our images or substitute with your own. Charts and interactive graphics follow the same rules. Don’t change too much. Or, ask us first. Articles must be republished in their entirety. It’s okay to change references to time (“today” to “yesterday”) or location (“Iowa City, IA” to “here”). But please keep everything else the same. If you feel strongly that a more material edit needs to be made, get in touch with us at [email protected]. We’re happy to discuss it with the original author, but we must have prior approval for changes before publication. Special cases Extracts. You may run the first few lines or paragraphs of the article and then say: “Read the full article at Modern Farmer” with a link back to the original article. Quotes. You may quote authors provided you include a link back to the article URL. Translations. These require writer approval. To inquire about translation of a Modern Farmer article, contact us at [email protected] Signed consent / copyright release forms. These are not required, provided you are following these guidelines. Print. Articles can be republished in print under these same rules, with the exception that you do not need to include the links. Tag us When sharing the story on social media, please tag us using the following: - Twitter (@ModFarm) - Facebook (@ModernFarmerMedia) - Instagram (@modfarm) Use our content respectfully Modern Farmer is a nonprofit and as such we share our content for free and in good faith in order to reach new audiences. Respectfully, No selling ads against our stories. It’s okay to put our stories on pages with ads. Don’t republish our material wholesale, or automatically; you need to select stories to be republished individually. You have no rights to sell, license, syndicate, or otherwise represent yourself as the authorized owner of our material to any third parties. This means that you cannot actively publish or submit our work for syndication to third party platforms or apps like Apple News or Google News. We understand that publishers cannot fully control when certain third parties automatically summarize or crawl content from publishers’ own sites. Keep in touch We want to hear from you if you love Modern Farmer content, have a collaboration idea, or anything else to share. As a nonprofit outlet, we work in service of our community and are always open to comments, feedback, and ideas. Contact us at [email protected]. by Emily Baron Cadloff, Modern Farmer October 10, 2021 Modern Farmer Weekly Solutions Hub Innovations, ideas and inspiration. Actionable solutions for a resilient food system. Explore Explore other topics Share With Us We want to hear from Modern Farmer readers who have thoughtful commentary, actionable solutions, or helpful ideas to share. Submit Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and are used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies.
