Amazon is transforming how people work and live through practical, useful generative AI. We’ve been developing and deploying AI and machine learning models to power customer experiences for more than 25 years. Today, with over 1,000 generative AI services and applications built or in progress—a small fraction of what we’ll ultimately build—we’re pioneering the future of AI agents to make customers’ lives better and easier every day. We innovate across customer-facing services and internal operations, from our AI shopping assistant used by tens of millions of customers to the intelligent robots that optimize order fulfillment in our warehouses. We’ve launched entirely new businesses based on AI, like Alexa+, our next-generation Alexa personal assistant. And more than 100,000 enterprise customers are using the most comprehensive set of AI services, tools, and resources offered through Amazon Web Services (AWS). We continue to build at all three layers of the generative AI stack, including best-in-class infrastructure, AI models, and AI applications. Our approach is to blend breakthrough research with real-world impact, harnessing the power of generative AI to reinvent every customer experience. Building without boundaries “I work on things that both accelerate and democratize everybody’s access to technology. If you can imagine it and you’re diligent and want to create something new, you can. There’s not a lot of places I know of where you have that much freedom.” Rory R., Director, Next Generation Developer Experience, Generative AI Go-To-Market, AWS Innovating fearlessly “If you’re not failing, then you’re probably not actually innovating. At Amazon, there are a lot of other people who are just as driven to work on hard problems as you are. I think about the sheer scale of half a billion Alexa devices globally. It’s gratifying to work at this scale because millions of people rely on it every day.” Jonathan F., Senior Applied Scientist, Alexa Audio Transforming entertainment “As part of Amazon, Prime Video harnesses the cutting-edge innovations in AI. New foundational models and agentic frameworks unlock ways to scale and speed up how fast we can bring features to our customers. I love working with best-in-class developers, scientists, and product managers from across the world. Every day I learn something new.” Lilia A., Principal Product Manager, Prime Video Unlocking possibilities “We’re working on very challenging problems without published solutions, so we need to experiment to deliver. AGI is unifying functionalities like image, video, audio, and speech into one powerful model. I really enjoy the technical challenges and believe this work will have a much larger impact. My days involve constantly assessing model performance and making improvements.” Yanbei C., Senior Applied Scientist, Artificial General Intelligence Starting small, thinking big “Amazon is a very big company that operates like a smaller company. Every team is chasing its own goals. You could be building a really small thing, just working on your computer and building out your model, and then you push it out to the real world where it’s used by millions of customers. One of the models I built last year improved the relevance of the ads that shoppers were seeing by 1%, which is a lot.” Sukriti V., Applied Scientist, Amazon Ads Revolutionizing healthcare “The work I do for our customers helps people be healthier, and we’re continuing to incorporate generative AI in our products with safety and privacy at the core. Whatever changes I make, they’re quickly launched to our customers. I’m lucky to be at the forefront of all of this innovation and to work with great, talented people.” Shail P., Senior Software Development Engineer, Amazon Pharmacy
