American analytics and consumer intelligence company J.D. Power recently released its 2025 report on top U.S. rental car companies of 2025. “As rental car companies keep an eye on profitable revenue growth, productivity, cost control, and fleet management, they also need to maintain a strong and keen focus on serving their customers,” J.D. Power states on its annual report. “Rental car companies that understand their customers’ expectations and rental experiences are better positioned to target performance improvement initiatives that may increase overall customer satisfaction, brand loyalty and advocacy, and maximize sales.” According to the J.D. Power 2025 North America Rental Car Satisfaction Study, Enterprise Rent-A-Car topped the charts for 2025, receiving a score of 734 out of 1,000. National came in second (721), and Advantage Rent A Car and Sixt tied for third (711). Hertz rounded out the top five. Last year, National Car Rental received first place. The lowest-rated rental car companies? Dollar, Fox Rent A Car and Payless. “Given options of loyalty programs, kiosks and rental car company apps, there are more ways than ever to bypass the rental car counter and customers who take advantage of that added convenience are enjoying the benefits,” said Azari Jones, rental car practice lead, J.D. Power. “But for one reason or another, many customers are choosing to take the extra time to engage with representatives at the rental car counter. The key for rental car companies looking to maximize customer satisfaction is to clearly communicate the value of direct pick-up for time-pressed travelers, and to add value at the counter by delivering personalized service and more fully addressing customers’ questions and concerns.” The report was compiled by examining customer experience with rental car companies across seven core dimensions in order of importance: ease of rental; pick-up/drop-off; level of trust; vehicle; staff; value for price paid; and digital tools. The report then gathered responses from 8,263 business and leisure travelers who rented a vehicle at an airport location in the last year (August 2024–August 2025). Satisfaction was also measured based on how long customers are at an airport car rental counter. The report also found travelers wait an average of eight minutes at the rental car counter. Eighty percent of airport rental car customers visit the counter first, despite many brands offering alternatives to skip the counter entirely and go directly to the lot to fetch their rental car. Overall satisfaction among customers who bypass the rental counter is 704 (on a 1,000-point scale), compared to 662 among those who stop at the counter. Additionally, the report found those who bypass the counter have a higher satisfaction with the pick-up/drop-off experience (722 v. 667, respectively), and ease/convenience of securing the rental (722 v. 663, respectively). What are your thoughts on this report? Which rental car company do you prefer? Have you had a specific positive or negative (or funny) rental car experience you’d like to share? What factor is most important to you when renting a car? Email us at letters@globaltravelerusa.com. Please include your full name and location. Read This Next Introducing FX Excursions FX Excursions offers the chance for once-in-a-lifetime experiences in destinations around the world. #globility Insta Feed December 2025 Dec 19, 2025 Long in the shadow of Denver, Colorado, the hub of the U.S. Mountain West, there’s a new contender built around the marvel of Utah’s Great Salt Lake. Salt Lake City has long been known as the gateway to the best dry powder skiing and winter sports in the west, as well as for the spectacular mountains and canyons on display in the state’s five national parks. Sponsored Content How To Enhance Your Mental and Emotional Wellness on the Road Prioritizing Mental and Emotional Wellness While Traveling for Business Business travel opens doors to professional growth and new experiences — but a demanding schedule, time away from home and work pressures can affect mental wellness. According to a 2024 Gallup study, with more than half of the global workforce reporting disengagement, supporting wellness on the road is more important than ever. Below are practical ways to stay balanced and energized during business trips. Airlines Dec 19, 2025 Cathay Pacific Launches First Aria Suite Experience Between the United States, Hong Kong Cathay Pacific introduces its retrofitted Boeing 777-300ER aircraft to the United States for the first time. This aircraft brings its award-winning Aria Suite business-class experience, new premium economy and updated economy cabin to select flights between San Francisco (SFO) and Hong Kong (HKG). Daily Dec 19, 2025 New Air Shuttle Services Launch at Shamwari Private Game Reserve, South Africa Ready to streamline your arrival at Shamwari Private Game Reserve in South Africa? Just in time for the new year, the property introduced air shuttle service aboard a 16-seat Beechcraft 1900D to its private airstrip, with direct links to Johannesburg’s O.R. Tambo International Airport (two hours and 12 minutes travel time) and Cape Town International Airport (one hour and 45 minutes travel time). Sponsored Content Ireland: The Pinnacle of Golf by the Sea and Beyond With the legacy of The Open at Royal Portrush still fresh, Ireland secured its place among the world’s most exceptional golf destinations. For those in search of championship courses, dramatic landscapes and renowned hospitality, the island offers an experience unlike any other. Daily Dec 19, 2025 Rosewood London Unveils The Chalet Rosewood London recently unveiled The Chalet at Rosewood London, an alpine-inspired terrace experience through February 2026. The activation includes collaborations with Goldbergh, an Amsterdam-based luxury ski brand, and The Singleton Single Malt Scotch Whisky. The hotel’s courtyard has transformed into a sophisticated mountain retreat in the heart of London. Holiday Happenings at Omni PGA Frisco Resort & Spa Daily Dec 18, 2025 eFlyer Reviews Dec 17, 2025 Hotel Casa Palmela Review Though Lisbon teems with travelers, it’s possible to find pockets of peace outside the city. A 45-minute drive from the city center delivers you to Setúbal, an Old-World fishing village on the southwest coast, surrounded by vineyards, beaches and mountains. Hotel Casa Palmela, a sprawling countryside retreat ensconced by the rolling hills of Arrábida Natural Park, is the place to stay. Sponsored Content Three Must-Do AmaWaterways River Cruises for the Entire Family For travelers seeking the perfect blend of relaxation, cultural immersion and family-friendly adventure, few experiences rival that of an AmaWaterways river cruise. Recently honored in Global Traveler ’s 2025 Leisure Lifestyle Awards as Best River Cruise Line for the third consecutive year, AmaWaterways continues to set the standard for authentic and inclusive exploration on Europe’s storied waterways. Throughout your journey, you’ll enjoy spacious staterooms; exquisite farm-to-ship cuisine; enriching excursions led by expert local guides; and a warm, attentive crew dedicated to making every journey seamless. For families looking to create lasting memories, here are three unforgettable AmaWaterways itineraries worth experiencing within the coming months. eFlyer News Dec 17, 2025 SWISS’s First A350-900 with New SWISS Senses Experience Comes to United States SWISS’s brand-new Airbus A350-900 aircraft recently made its inaugural intercontinental flight from Zürich (ZRH) to Boston (BOS), bringing the airline’s new SWISS Senses travel concept to passengers in all classes. American analytics and consumer intelligence company J.D. Power recently released its 2025 report on top U.S. rental car companies of 2025. “As rental car companies keep an eye on profitable revenue growth, productivity, cost control, and fleet management, they also need to maintain a strong and keen focus on serving their customers,” J.D. Power states on its annual report. “Rental car companies that understand their customers’ expectations and rental experiences are better positioned to target performance improvement initiatives that may increase overall customer satisfaction, brand loyalty and advocacy, and maximize sales.” According to the J.D. Power 2025 North America Rental Car Satisfaction Study, Enterprise Rent-A-Car topped the charts for 2025, receiving a score of 734 out of 1,000. National came in second (721), and Advantage Rent A Car and Sixt tied for third (711). Hertz rounded out the top five. Last year, National Car Rental received first place. The lowest-rated rental car companies? Dollar, Fox Rent A Car and Payless. “Given options of loyalty programs, kiosks and rental car company apps, there are more ways than ever to bypass the rental car counter and customers who take advantage of that added convenience are enjoying the benefits,” said Azari Jones, rental car practice lead, J.D. Power. “But for one reason or another, many customers are choosing to take the extra time to engage with representatives at the rental car counter. The key for rental car companies looking to maximize customer satisfaction is to clearly communicate the value of direct pick-up for time-pressed travelers, and to add value at the counter by delivering personalized service and more fully addressing customers’ questions and concerns.” The report was compiled by examining customer experience with rental car companies across seven core dimensions in order of importance: ease of rental; pick-up/drop-off; level of trust; vehicle; staff; value for price paid; and digital tools. The report then gathered responses from 8,263 business and leisure travelers who rented a vehicle at an airport location in the last year (August 2024–August 2025). Satisfaction was also measured based on how long customers are at an airport car rental counter. The report also found travelers wait an average of eight minutes at the rental car counter. Eighty percent of airport rental car customers visit the counter first, despite many brands offering alternatives to skip the counter entirely and go directly to the lot to fetch their rental car. Overall satisfaction among customers who bypass the rental counter is 704 (on a 1,000-point scale), compared to 662 among those who stop at the counter. Additionally, the report found those who bypass the counter have a higher satisfaction with the pick-up/drop-off experience (722 v. 667, respectively), and ease/convenience of securing the rental (722 v. 663, respectively). What are your thoughts on this report? Which rental car company do you prefer? Have you had a specific positive or negative (or funny) rental car experience you’d like to share? What factor is most important to you when renting a car? Email us at letters@globaltravelerusa.com. Please include your full name and location. Read This Next Introducing FX Excursions FX Excursions offers the chance for once-in-a-lifetime experiences in destinations around the world. #globility Insta Feed December 2025 Dec 19, 2025 Long in the shadow of Denver, Colorado, the hub of the U.S. Mountain West, there’s a new contender built around the marvel of Utah’s Great Salt Lake. Salt Lake City has long been known as the gateway to the best dry powder skiing and winter sports in the west, as well as for the spectacular mountains and canyons on display in the state’s five national parks. Sponsored Content How To Enhance Your Mental and Emotional Wellness on the Road Prioritizing Mental and Emotional Wellness While Traveling for Business Business travel opens doors to professional growth and new experiences — but a demanding schedule, time away from home and work pressures can affect mental wellness. According to a 2024 Gallup study, with more than half of the global workforce reporting disengagement, supporting wellness on the road is more important than ever. Below are practical ways to stay balanced and energized during business trips. Airlines Dec 19, 2025 Cathay Pacific Launches First Aria Suite Experience Between the United States, Hong Kong Cathay Pacific introduces its retrofitted Boeing 777-300ER aircraft to the United States for the first time. This aircraft brings its award-winning Aria Suite business-class experience, new premium economy and updated economy cabin to select flights between San Francisco (SFO) and Hong Kong (HKG). Daily Dec 19, 2025 New Air Shuttle Services Launch at Shamwari Private Game Reserve, South Africa Ready to streamline your arrival at Shamwari Private Game Reserve in South Africa? Just in time for the new year, the property introduced air shuttle service aboard a 16-seat Beechcraft 1900D to its private airstrip, with direct links to Johannesburg’s O.R. Tambo International Airport (two hours and 12 minutes travel time) and Cape Town International Airport (one hour and 45 minutes travel time). Sponsored Content Ireland: The Pinnacle of Golf by the Sea and Beyond With the legacy of The Open at Royal Portrush still fresh, Ireland secured its place among the world’s most exceptional golf destinations. For those in search of championship courses, dramatic landscapes and renowned hospitality, the island offers an experience unlike any other. Daily Dec 19, 2025 Rosewood London Unveils The Chalet Rosewood London recently unveiled The Chalet at Rosewood London, an alpine-inspired terrace experience through February 2026. The activation includes collaborations with Goldbergh, an Amsterdam-based luxury ski brand, and The Singleton Single Malt Scotch Whisky. The hotel’s courtyard has transformed into a sophisticated mountain retreat in the heart of London. Holiday Happenings at Omni PGA Frisco Resort & Spa Daily Dec 18, 2025 eFlyer Reviews Dec 17, 2025 Hotel Casa Palmela Review Though Lisbon teems with travelers, it’s possible to find pockets of peace outside the city. A 45-minute drive from the city center delivers you to Setúbal, an Old-World fishing village on the southwest coast, surrounded by vineyards, beaches and mountains. Hotel Casa Palmela, a sprawling countryside retreat ensconced by the rolling hills of Arrábida Natural Park, is the place to stay. Sponsored Content Three Must-Do AmaWaterways River Cruises for the Entire Family For travelers seeking the perfect blend of relaxation, cultural immersion and family-friendly adventure, few experiences rival that of an AmaWaterways river cruise. Recently honored in Global Traveler ’s 2025 Leisure Lifestyle Awards as Best River Cruise Line for the third consecutive year, AmaWaterways continues to set the standard for authentic and inclusive exploration on Europe’s storied waterways. Throughout your journey, you’ll enjoy spacious staterooms; exquisite farm-to-ship cuisine; enriching excursions led by expert local guides; and a warm, attentive crew dedicated to making every journey seamless. For families looking to create lasting memories, here are three unforgettable AmaWaterways itineraries worth experiencing within the coming months. eFlyer News Dec 17, 2025 SWISS’s First A350-900 with New SWISS Senses Experience Comes to United States SWISS’s brand-new Airbus A350-900 aircraft recently made its inaugural intercontinental flight from Zürich (ZRH) to Boston (BOS), bringing the airline’s new SWISS Senses travel concept to passengers in all classes.
