Advertiser Disclosure Many of the credit card offers that appear on this site are from credit card companies from which we may receive financial compensation when a customer clicks on a link, when an application is approved, or when an account is opened. This compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear). However, the credit card information that we publish has been written and evaluated by experts who know these products inside out. We only recommend products we either use ourselves or endorse. This site does not include all credit card companies or all available credit card offers that are on the market. See our advertising policy here where we list advertisers that we work with, and how we make money. You can also review our credit card rating methodology. Amar Hussain Senior Content Contributor 867 Published Articles Countries Visited: 63U.S. States Visited: 9 Keri Stooksbury Editor-in-Chief 108 Published Articles 3824 Edited Articles Countries Visited: 54U.S. States Visited: 28 We may be compensated when you click on a link, when an application is approved, or when an account is opened from one or more of our advertising partners. Terms apply to the offers below. See our Advertising Policy for more about our partners, how we make money, and our rating methodology. Opinions and recommendations are ours alone. When it comes to renting a car, it can be daunting to choose which company to use. Many travelers will opt for what appears to be the cheapest base rate, but depending on your requirements, you may be stung with expensive extras such as damage waivers, car seats, or toll policies. If your search uncovers pretty comparable rates, you may want to consider a rental company with rave reviews for customer service or the slickest pick-up and return process. Regular renters will benefit from joining a loyalty program that offers the highest point earnings and lowest redemption rates for free rental days. We’ve detailed 10 of the best car rental companies to help you decide which one is right for you. To assess which car rental companies offer the most competitive rates, we completed quote comparisons for a 7-day rental of a standard category car. Example 1 : Renting from Orlando International Airport (MCO) Example 2: Renting from John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) $260.93 $269 $471.42 $486 $381.51 $399.44 $289.85 $341 $596.37 $945 $280.14 $312.50 $521.10 $579 Not offered $455.76 Not offered $772.51 Not offered $411.11 Not offered $772.48 $260.28 $272.62 $535.67 $708.35 Not offered $444.50 Not offered $796.25 Not available from JFK Not offered $448.34 Not offered $612.41 For the same dates and category of car, rates vary drastically between rental companies. For example 1, Dollar charges over $190 more than Sixt, which is just over $27 extra per rental day. You can see that Avis and Budget offer the biggest discounts for prepaying when making a reservation. In example 2, Avis’s pay-on-arrival rate is widely more expensive than competitors’. Advertisement With only a handful of offices across the U.S., Advantage doesn’t offer the widespread locations of Enterprise or Hertz. Still, with international coverage and new and next-to-new car models at budget prices, it’s a good option. When drivers sign up for the Expressway program, they receive an instant reward for either a free rental day or a car upgrade . All 4 tier levels receive a random reward after every rental, and Gold and Platinum members also benefit from the choice of a free GPS, toll pass, or car seat for the duration of their rental. It takes just 3 to 4 rentals to move from the base tier to Silver, 5 to 6 rentals from Silver to Gold, and 7+ rentals from Gold to Platinum. The higher the tier, the more benefits you’ll receive. The Advantage mobile app simplifies the booking process. It allows customers to search and book vehicles and receive real-time estimates of when their cars will be ready. As with many car rental companies, fees for added extras vary depending on the branch you’re renting from. For states with non-specific laws or fee caps, Advantage is on the high side , charging up to $13.49 per day for extras such as additional drivers or car seats. Pros: Cons: Alamo is the biggest car rental company for international travelers in North America, with offices in all major U.S. airports. Compared to Enterprise and Hertz, Alamo’s presence is actually a lot smaller, with nearly 300 offices across the U.S. Still, that didn’t stop Alamo from ranking fifth in the J.D. Power North America Rental Car Satisfaction study of 2024. Alamo excels in streamlining the rental experience , enabling customers to use self-serve kiosks or to skip the counter entirely by checking in online. When checking in online or using the kiosks, customers can choose to add drivers, upgrade their vehicle, or add extras such as toll packages or a GPS. At many U.S. airports, those customers checking in online may proceed to the rental garage and choose their car based on their requested car class. The process is really efficient and who doesn’t love skipping a queue? Alamo scores a respectable 8.9/10 for customer reviews on RentalCars.com (as of November 2024), with many reviewers praising the pick-up and drop-off process at countless locations. Although Alamo isn’t the cheapest rental car company out there, it does offer a 5% discount for Alamo Insiders members , which is free to register for if you’re renting in the U.S., Canada, the Caribbean, Latin America, or Mexico. Where available, a further 5% can be saved by prepaying your rental fee when booking in advance — just watch out for the cancellation fee ($50 to $100) should your plans change. Pros: Cons: The original innovator in the rental car industry, Avis was the first company to rent vehicles from airport locations and has now expanded to operate in over 165 countries worldwide. With over 1,400 locations in the U.S., you’re never too far from an Avis office. Avis is one of the most expensive car rental companies out there, particularly when choosing to reserve a vehicle and pay on pick-up. With that in mind, you’ll want to take advantage of its prepaid rates, which offer up to 30% off the standard fee . Just be aware that if your situation changes and you don’t require the rental, a cancellation fee of $50 would be charged with more than 24 hours’ notice and $150 for less than 24 hours’ notice. Another way to save on Avis’ above-average rental fees is to look at its Offers page, available for U.S. or international rentals. Avis posts discount codes for a variety of offers, from money off renting from neighborhood locations to a free weekend day as part of a longer rental. Drivers can sign up for the Avis Preferred program and earn points towards free rentals and accessories, such as roadside assistance, GPS, or child seats. Members earn 1 point per qualifying dollar spent on rentals and 2 points per dollar spent on accessories. Once they reach specific thresholds for the number of rentals or total spend, drivers will become Avis Preferred Plus members, with point earnings of up to 3 per dollar spent. Pros: Cons: Advertisement As Budget is part of the Avis Budget Group, it’s not surprising that both brands have a lot of crossover with policies and offers that you see on both websites. Similar to Avis, Budget has over 1,500 neighborhood and airport offices nationwide. What is dissimilar is the rental price, with Budget being the cheaper of the 2 (as the name would suggest). Like Avis, Budget offers significant discounts of up to 35% if drivers prepay for their rental at the time of booking. The usual prepay conditions apply for cancellations, so if you need to cancel, you’ll pay $50 to $150, depending on when you cancel. Budget enables customers to add their spouse as an additional driver for free, provided they meet the standard driver requirements. With additional driver fees of up to $13 per day, this can save you a pretty penny on your bill — especially if you are renting outside of California or a state that allows free additional drivers for spouses. Budget’s Fastbreak program is a little different from other rental car companies as it doesn’t work on a point earning and redemption system. Instead, members receive fast-tracked service when picking up and dropping off a vehicle. Members also receive exclusive deals ; for example, at the time of writing, Budget was sending members $25 of Budget Bucks after renting twice before the end of the year. Pros: Cons: Dollar is part of The Hertz Corporation (along with Thrifty) and has more than 260 locations across the U.S. and Canada. Although it is known as a budget car rental company, Dollar was actually on the expensive side when we obtained quote comparisons. Thankfully, the company has regular promotions to bring its base rate down. Dollar isn’t renowned for its impeccable customer service, but it’s a good option if you’re looking for the most rewards from a loyalty program or frequent flyer partners. Dollar offers 15% off weekday or weekend rentals when customers sign up to receive promotional emails. For customers who have already registered, savings can be found under the Specials tab on the Dollar website. At the time of writing, this included 10% off for young renters and 10% off for AAA members. Like most car rental companies, Dollar allows customers to prepay their rental fee for a reduced rate. Provided the booking is 24 hours before pick up, customers can prepay and save up to 20% off of the base rate. Dollar’s Express Rewards loyalty program is one of the most generous, offering favorable redemption fees and additional membership benefits. At select locations, members can skip the counter and head straight to the parking lot to collect their car, and spouses can be registered as additional drivers for free. Members earn 1 point per dollar spent on rentals and accessories, with redemption fees starting from 500 points per day (for other programs, this is usually around 700). Pros: Cons: Hot Tip: If you have status with another car rental program, you may be eligible for an elite status match. With over 4,000 neighborhood and airport branch offices, Enterprise is the largest car rental company in the U.S. Combined with its sister companies Alamo and National, Enterprise Holdings has offices located within 15 miles of 90% of the U.S. population, so it is by far the most accessible. Enterprise was the second-highest top performer in the 2024 J.D. Power North America Rental Car Satisfaction Study. Enterprise’s rental fees tend to be on the higher side, but compared to its competitors (excluding Alamo and National), its fees for optional extras such as child seats or a GPS are quite a bit cheaper. Drivers aged 21 to 24 can also save a bit of money on daily young driver surcharges as non-state specific fees are $5 to $15 cheaper per day versus its competitors. Enterprise also has one of the most reasonable toll policies , along with Alamo and National, with a cap of $19.75 per rental period. Advantage and Dollar have a considerably higher cap of $90 per rental period, so if your journey takes you through several electronic toll booths, then you’ll want to consider Enterprise. The Enterprise Plus program is free to join and allows members to earn points towards free car rentals . Frequent renters qualify for tier status and can reach Silver, Gold, or Platinum status to achieve bonus point earnings and free car upgrades. Pros: Cons: Hertz is one of the largest car rental companies in the U.S., with over 3,000 neighborhood and airport locations. It has a reputation for reasonable rates and excellent customer service. Hertz has a good range of standard car models, but for an extra special treat, customers can rent from the Hertz Dream Collection , including an Aston Martin DB11 Volante or a Lamborghini Huracan Evo. Hertz emphasizes booking directly and offers an attractive price-matching policy . Not only will Hertz match the rate for the same vehicle group and rental period, but it will also deduct an additional 10% once the claim has been verified. Customers can sign up for the Hertz Gold Plus Rewards loyalty program to earn 1 point per dollar spent and work their way up to Five Star or President’s Circle status for more benefits. All membership tiers can skip the counter for check-in and use e-returns for quicker processing. Point redemptions are on the higher side, starting at 750 points for a day’s rental, but members are not restricted to any blackout periods. Pros: Cons: Owned by Enterprise Holdings, National is the little sister company of Enterprise Rent A Car with just over 300 office locations across the U.S. National was the highest-ranking company in the 2024 J.D. Power North America Rental Car Satisfaction. The Emerald Club is for frequent customers who want to earn rental credits towards free rental days, along with a whole host of other benefits. All members can choose any car (midsize or above) on the Emerald Aisle when booking a midsize car, and all members receive 1 rental credit for every eligible rental. Emerald Club members can redeem 7 credits for a free rental day, whereas Elite members (Executive and Executive Elite) require fewer rental credits to redeem against a free rental day. Executive members only require 6 rental credits, and Executive Elite members need only 5 rental credits. The Emerald Aisle is available to Emerald Club members when renting in the U.S. or Canada, and when booking a midsize car, customers can bypass the counter and head straight to the Emerald Aisle to choose any make and model they like (the keys are ready in the car). National is well-known for its corporate rental programs for small- and medium-sized businesses. Favorable contracted rates allow businesses to rent a vehicle at the drop of a hat without incurring high last-minute fees. Pros: Cons: Only entering the North American market in 2011, Sixt is one of the newest rental agencies and has grown at a tremendous rate, with over 50 offices throughout the U.S. Sixt offers a new and premium fleet of German and American cars, with vehicles at an average of 3 months old. Although it’s got some of the newest cars available, Sixt offered up some of the cheapest rates available when we searched for quotes. Sixt offers particularly favorable weekly rates when reserving a vehicle for more than 28 days . At the time of writing, a Jeep Grand Cherokee could be booked from just $122 per week with a long-term rental. The Sixt Advantage Circle consists of different levels of reward cards that allow members to collect points with other partners, such as airlines and hotels, and receive rental benefits. When signing up, customers will receive a Sixt Express card that allows members to skip the usual formalities at the counter and receive low self-service rates. After 3 rentals, members will receive a Sixt Gold card, after 10 rentals members receive a Sixt Platinum card, and to reach Diamond card status, members must await an invitation. Elite tier cardholders receive benefits such as free additional drivers, discounts of up to 20%, and free upgrades. Hot Tip: Sixt will status-match your loyalty membership level with other rental companies, airlines, or hotels. Simply send the relevant documentation detailing your status level to sixtcard-us@sixt.com, and you could reach Platinum level after your first rental. Pros: Cons: Thrifty is part of the Hertz Corporation, and like its sister company Dollar, the main focus is on value for money . Saying that, whereas most other car rental companies mostly always offer discounted prepaid rates, these are hard to find with Thrifty. With 400+ locations across the U.S., Thrifty offices can be found in neighborhood locations and at major airports. Customers in a rush will love Thrifty’s Timesaver Check-in, where you can complete your details in advance to skip the formalities at the counter. The Blue Chip Rewards program enables members to earn points towards free rental days and has many additional benefits such as free additional driver (spouse or domestic partner), skipping the counter to head straight to the lot, and priority counter service . Members receive 1 point per dollar spent, and the redemption rate is pretty low — starting at 500 points for a weekend day. Thrifty works with many airline and hotel partners for increased points earnings. At the time of writing, customers could earn triple Alaska Airlines miles when renting with Thrifty or double points with Southwest Rapid Rewards. Pros: Cons: Choosing the best car rental company will depend on your requirements. If cost is the deciding factor, rates can depend on how far in advance you book and how long you’re renting for. Budget offers up to 35% off for prepaying when reserving your vehicle, and Sixt has some great rates on long-term rentals over 28 days. If receiving the best customer service is of the utmost importance, then National, Enterprise, and Sixt are the companies to go with. They ranked highest in the 2024 J.D. Power North America Rental Car Satisfaction Study. If you’re a regular renter, most car rental loyalty programs offer a standard 1 point for every dollar spent, although Avis offers 2 points per dollar spent on accessories. Where members really feel the benefits is when the redemption rates are lower, and Dollar and Thrifty both have low redemption rates starting at 500 points for a weekend day rental. Related Posts
