Even if you have a comprehensive cable package, streaming services have become all but necessary to keep up with select sports and original TV shows. Fortunately, there are deals on nearly every streaming service out there, especially when it comes to opting in for an annual plan or bundling multiple services together. Below, we've highlighted all of the best streaming deals and bundles, from Disney to Amazon and everything in between. While many of these deals are standard, year-round offerings, we'll keep this page updated to include limited-time-only sales so that you'll never miss out on potential savings. So far this month, we've found solid deals from STARZ, introductory savings on multiple DirecTV plans, and a limited-time sale when you bundle the new ESPN streaming service with Disney Plus, Hulu, and/or NFL Plus. Check out each streaming service's currently available deals below. We've highlighted both standard streaming services and live TV packages, with price comparisons for how much you'd pay per year with a month-to-month plan or how much you'd pay per month without bundling multiple services together. Many of the streamers offer introductory deals for new and/or eligible returning customers, which we've also outlined. Paramount+ There are always year-round savings with Paramount+ annual plans compared to paying month-to-month. Essential plans cost $7.99 a month, and the Premium tier goes for $12.99 a month. If you opt for annual, you end up saving about $35 a year for either plan. Essential gives subscribers ad-supported on-demand content, while the Premium upgrade offers an ad-free on-demand experience, CBS live streaming, Showtime programming, and other perks. Paramount+ Essential (or Peacock Premium, if you'd prefer that) is also included with all Walmart+ plans, from monthly ($12.95 a month) to annual ($98 a year). Upgrading from a monthly to an annual plan will save you more than 1/3 of the cost each year. The Essential tier offers live NFL on CBS games and ad-supported on-demand content. Paramount Plus Premium gives subscribers ad-free on-demand CBS, Paramount Plus, and Showtime content, in addition to 24/7 CBS live streams. If you switch from monthly to annual, you can save more than $30 each year. Walmart+ is positioning itself as a more affordable alternative to Amazon Prime. Your choice of Paramount+ Essential or Peacock Premium is included with every subscription. If you just want to stick with a monthly plan, you can head to the Paramount+ website . ESPN ESPN's new streaming service has two tiers: ESPN Select (for $12.99 a month) and ESPN Unlimited (for $29.99 a month). Both plans have annual subscription options, which offer year-over-year savings compared to paying monthly for 12 months. From now until January 5, 2026, you can also bundle ESPN Unlimited with Disney+ and Hulu for $29.99 a month for 12 months before the bundle reverts to the then-standard price. There's also some savings if you bundle ESPN Unlimited and NFL Plus Premium for $39.99 a month, compared to the $44.98 you'd pay each month if you subscribed to the services separately. You can also save by bundling ESPN Unlimited and FOX One for $39.99 a month, compared to the $49.98 you'd pay if subscribed separately. ESPN Select, formerly ESPN+, carries select events across a variety of ESPN properties. You can find some year-over-year savings with an annual subscription. ESPN Unlimited unlocks everything you could want when it comes to live stream ESPN's linear networks, in addition to all of the ESPN+/ESPN Select offerings. You can save big each year by subscribing to an annual plan. ESPN Unlimited customers can now bundle in NFL Plus Premium. NFL Plus carries every NFL game this season, and the Premium tier unlocks NFL RedZone. Local and primetime games are only available on mobile. ESPN Unlimited and FOX One offer every piece of programming from ESPN and FOX properties, respectively. This includes full live streams of flagship channels. If you'd rather try a monthly plan or explore the bundle deal, you can go to the ESPN website . Peacock Peacock's monthly plans go for $10.99 or $16.99 a month, so the annual plans add up to about 12 months for the price of the 10. The Premium tier offers on-demand and select live coverage with ads, while Premium Plus has ad-free on-demand content and a 24/7 live stream of NBC. The service boasts select live sports and classic comedies, like The Office, Parks and Rec, and Saturday Night Live. There's also a pared-down Peacock Select tier, which costs $7.99 a month or $79.99 a year. This plan only includes ad-supported on-demand current season and library content from NBC and Bravo shows, in addition to some other select programming (but no movies, live events/sports, or Peacock Originals). Peacock and Apple TV also recently launched two bundle options: one for Peacock Premium and Apple TV, and another for Peacock Premium Plus and Apple TV. Subscriptions cost $14.99 and $19.99, respectively, a significant savings opportunity compared to what you'd pay for both services separately each month. Additionally, Peacock Premium (or Paramount+ Essential, depending on what you prefer) is included with Walmart+ subscriptions, which cost $12.95 a month or $98 a year. Instacart+, which costs $9.99 a month or $99 a year, also comes with Peacock Premium access. The annual version of Peacock's ad-supported tier offers some solid savings compared to month-to-month plans. The plan unlocks Peacock's full suite of on-demand content, including programming from NBC, Bravo, Universal, and Peacock originals. The annual plan of Peacock Premium Plus gives you the benefit of getting 10 months for the price of 12. As with the monthly tier of Plus, this gets rid of most ads, allows for select downloads, and comes with your local live NBC offering. Peacock Select simply offers ad-supported current season and library programming from NBC and Bravo, as well as other select content. This tier doesn't offer Peacock originals, movies, or live sports and events. The standard Peacock and Apple TV bundle unlocks ad-supported on-demand content from Peacock's full library, select Peacock sports live streaming, and everything that Apple TV has to offer. The Premium version of the bundle combines everything from the Apple TV service (live streaming and ad-free original content) and ad-free on-demand programming from Peacock. This tier also unlocks NBC live streaming. Walmart Plus is an entire membership program designed to benefit regular shoppers at Walmart. It gets you free delivery on groceries from your local store, fuel discounts, and other promo offers throughout the year. You also get a free Paramount+ or Peacock subscription packed with TV and movie content. Instacart Plus is a great option for those who regularly use Instacart delivery. Memberships include $0 grocery delivery fees on orders of $10+, a NYT Cooking subscription, a Peacock Premium subscription, and more. You can check out the Peacock website if you'd rather subscribe to a monthly plan. Disney Plus Disney (and several of its partners) offers the greatest number of deals through bundles. There are savings if you bundle Disney+ with Hulu, with Hulu and HBO Max, with Hulu and ESPN, with Hulu + Live TV, or if you just get an annual Disney+ ad-free subscription. We recommend trying out one of the Disney+ and Hulu combos no matter what, since you get two entire on-demand subscriptions for only $1 a month more than the price of one. Disney+ is an on-demand, ad-free streaming service where subscribers will be able to enjoy movies and shows from Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars, National Geographic, and 20th Century Fox. This subscription also includes original programming exclusive to Disney+. There's a huge double-saving on these two bundled popular ad-supported streaming platforms. The plan offers all content from both Hulu and Disney Plus at a fraction of what it would cost to pay for them separately. If you're planning to get Disney+ and Hulu ad-free, you'll find major savings by bundling the two together. While a fair chunk of change more a month than the ad-supported tiers, the smooth, uninterrupted experience is much more preferable for really losing yourself in a great show or movie. You can get a triple subscription to the ad-supported tiers of Disney Plus, Hulu, and ESPN Select, unlocking entertainment for kids, adults, and sports fans of any age. This bundle includes ad-free Disney Plus, ad-free Hulu, and ESPN Select for a discounted price that saves you a little over $20 a month. This triple-value bundle gets you ad-supported access to Disney Plus, Hulu, and HBO Max. That's much cheaper than the regular combined cost of all three services and provides you with a huge selection of programming to enjoy, including HBO Max's non-live offerings. This package offers ad-free streaming access to Disney Plus, Hulu, and HBO Max for $33 a month. That's more than $20 off the regular combined cost of all three services. This tier of HBO Max includes select sports live streaming. This bundle combines ad-supported Disney Plus and Hulu with ESPN Unlimited, pulling together three massive libraries for one discounted price. The Premium tier of this bundle combines ESPN Unlimited with ad-free Disney Plus and Hulu. This plan also unlocks the ability to download content. Sports fans can add NFL Plus Premium to their Disney Plus, Hulu, and ESPN Unlimited bundle to maximize their NFL viewing options each season. Premium includes NFL RedZone access, in addition to mobile live streams of local and primetime games. If you plan to stick with just one streaming service or want to try a month-to-month subscription first, you can head to the Disney+ website for more information. Starz Starz subscriptions typically cost $10.99 a month, $45.99 for six months, or $69.99 for a year, but the streamer is usually running a promo on at least one of its plans at any given moment. Right now, customers can get about 83% off a year of service by opting for a $11.99 annual plan. If you're only interested in trying STARZ for a few months, there's also an option to get your first three months for $2.99 a month. You can also bundle a STARZ subscription with BritBox, the North American streaming home of several BBC and ITV series. This costs $14.99 a month, which breaks down to about 32% off of what it would cost to subscribe to both streaming services separately each month. STARZ is the streaming home of Outlander, Party Down, and tons of blockbuster movies. The app is one of the cheaper ad-free streaming services out there, but it also frequently offers impressive deals throughout the year. STARZ offers blockbuster movies and popular original series like Outlander, Party Down, and Power. This deal on the annual plan makes the service incredibly affordable, and even better, it comes with zero ads. You can combine a STARZ subscription with BritBox for a discounted price. In addition to original STARZ dramas and popular on-demand movies, this unlocks a wealth of content from overseas broadcasters such as the BBC and ITV. If you're only interested in getting a month-to-month subscription, you can check out the Starz website . Apple TV Apple TV typically costs $12.99 a month, but users can find savings in an annual plan, which costs $99. The annual plan wasn't impacted by the price increase, so the current offer saves subscribers a little over $56 each year. It's worth noting that you might need to sign up for a monthly plan first and then opt into annual billing. You can also save some money on the MLS Season Pass if you're already an Apple TV subscriber. Additionally, the cost of a full season pass usually decreases throughout the season. All Apple TV subscribers have access to the 2025 playoffs, even if they don't have the MLS Season Pass. Beginning in the 2026 season, all MLS matches will be available to Apple TV subscribers, so they won't need to pay for the extra MLS Season Pass. You can find info about the new Apple TV and Peacock bundles in the Peacock section above. Apple TV features exclusive original series like "Ted Lasso," "The Morning Show," and "For All Mankind." Annual plans cost $99 a year, which saves a little over $56 versus paying for individual months. If you're interested in learning more about Apple TV Plus or other Apple services, you can visit the Apple TV Plus website for additional information. DAZN DAZN has become an absolute hub for boxing, hosting some of the most-anticipated matches around the globe each year. DAZN also offers select other sports, usually without a PPV fee, although boxing is its focus. Most major fights require a subscription and pay-per-view (PPV) fee, but you can find some savings by opting for the 12-Month Monthly Saver plan, which reduces your monthly bill to $19.99 a month on a one-year contract. This is over 30% off compared to the standard, flexible $29.99 a month rate, which you can cancel at any time. DAZN also introduced a new $44.99 a month Ultimate plan, an annual contract that includes PPV fights at no extra cost. DAZN hosts a variety of sports coverage, with an emphasis on boxing. By locking into a 12-month contract, you can save some money on your monthly bill. For more information on DAZN's plans and PPV offerings, you can explore the DAZN website . Prime Video If you don't already have an Amazon Prime account, you can save money on an annual subscription. Monthly Amazon Prime subscriptions (which include Prime Video) cost $14.99 a month, and monthly Prime Video subscriptions cost $8.99 a month. You can go ad-free for an extra $2.99 a month. The streaming service offers everything from award-winning original TV series and movies to live sports. Prime Video also allows customers to subscribe to external streaming services through their Amazon account, and these sign-ups often come with special deals in the form of discounted bundles. All Amazon Prime memberships include Prime Video, so you can watch everything from "The Boys" to Thursday Night Football while getting two-day delivery on your latest orders. If you plan to hang onto your Prime subscription for the longterm, you'll find some savings in an annual subscription. If you'd rather try a monthly plan or just stick with Prime Video, you can find more information on the Prime Video storefront . HBO Max There are three tiers of HBO Max, previously Max (and before that, also HBO Max), in addition to a Disney/HBO Max/Hulu bundle, which we've highlighted above. The standard monthly price for HBO Max with Ads is $10.99, HBO Max Ad-Free is $18.49, and HBO Max Ultimate Ad-Free is $22.99. The ad-free tiers also include sports live streaming for games that air on Warner Bros. channels, like TNT and TBS. The annual version of each plan offers about 17% off in total per year, which is not a bad deal if HBO Max is something you're planning to hang onto in the long run. You can learn more about the Disney Plus, Hulu, and HBO Max bundles in the Disney Plus section above. If you activate by December 16, DoorDash's Annual plan (which offers savings year-over-year compared to subscribing monthly for 12 months) includes ad-supported HBO Max at no extra cost. With an annual HBO Max With Ads plan, you can stream a year of ad-supported content on up to two devices. The Ad-Free plan comes with the ability to stream on two devices, full HD video resolution, and 30 downloads for on-the-go viewing. HBO Max's most expensive tier comes with all of the perks. Subscribers can stream everything in 4K on up to four devices. Plus, the service comes with Dolby Atmos audio and 100 available downloads at any given time for offline viewing. DoorDash's annual DashPass plan unlocks $0 delivery fees (and reduced service fees) on eligible orders. Plus, if you activate soon, you can score HBO Max Basic with Ads. You can go to the HBO Max website if you'd rather just sign up for a month-to-month plan right now. Crunchyroll Crunchyroll is a popular anime-centric streaming service that has some decent savings opportunities when you subscribe to one of its three tiers of service on an annual basis. Monthly subscriptions range from $7.99 a month to $15.99 a month, and their annual counterparts range from $79.99 a year to $149.99 a year. Year-to-year, annual subscriptions are about 17-22% cheaper than what you'd pay in total after 12 months on a monthly subscription. A base Fan subscription comes with no ads, total access to the Crunchyroll library, and new episodes soon after they air in Japan. In addition to no ads and total content access, Mega Fans can stream on up to four devices and download HD videos, among other perks. The highest tier of Crunchyroll offers streaming on up to six devices and offline viewing, in addition to a few other exclusive perks and the ad-free content and programming found in other tiers. You can learn more about the various plans through the Crunchyroll website . DirecTV DirecTV, formerly DirecTV Stream, is another comprehensive live TV streaming service with pretty much all of the channels you'll find in a standard cable package. Right now, subscribers can get $40 off their first month of the Entertainment and Ultimate plans, $35 off their first month of Choice, and $45 off their first month of Premier. These plans also often offer additional savings after the first month. Just keep in mind that the actual prices might be a bit higher after paying the required regional sports fees, which can reach up to $19.99 a month on top of the standard monthly rate, and/or any necessary Gemini lease fees. There are also some introductory savings on select genre packs, including $5 a month off of MyEntertainment for the first two months, $10 a month off of MySports for the first two months, and $5 a month off of MiEspañol for the first two months. The MyEntertainment package offers lifestyle and entertainment-centric channels (plus a few other surprises). Channel offerings include Bravo, FX, TLC, and more. Subscribers also gain access to ad-supported Disney Plus, Hulu, and HBO Max. DirecTV's MySports pack carries popular sports channels, from mainstays like ESPN to niche offerings like the ACC Network. 50+ Spanish-language channels — including ESPN Deportes, TUDN, and Univision — are available in the MiEspañol lineup. DirecTV's base Signature package, the Entertainment plan, carries 90+ live channels, including local networks and popular cable options like ESPN, CNN, and MTV. DirecTV Choice carries all of the merits of the provider's Entertainment tier, plus access to regional and specialty sports networks. The MLB Network, NBA TV, and SEC Network are just some of the 125+ channels available with the plan. DirecTV's Ultimate plan is appropriately named. With 160+ channels, it's the highest tier that the streamer has to offer, carrying all of the cable essentials and then some. DirecTV's Premier plan is the kitchen sink of the streaming world. It offers more than 185+ live channels, in addition to Max, Paramount Plus with Showtime, STARZ, and Cinemax. If you're interested in learning more about DirecTV, check out the DirecTV website for additional information. Sling TV Sling TV has developed a reputation as one of the most affordable live TV streaming packages on the market, and it's also chock-full of deals. There are four main plans to choose from: Sling Select, Sling Orange, Sling Blue, and the Sling Orange + Blue combo. Individual Orange and Blue plans cost $45.99 a month each or $60.99 a month for both, and Sling Select starts at $19.99 a month. You can save by prepaying for three months of any of these plans. If you'd rather just pay monthly, Sling Orange + Blue has a 50% off deal on the first month of service. Sling also offers all sorts of deals if you add on a streaming service through your Sling subscription, including first-month savings on Paramount+ with Showtime (Premium), AMC+, and STARZ. Sling TV offers some of the best cable channels for $61 or less. There are three different tiers to choose from, plus several sports and entertainment-specific add-ons, but the Orange + Blue combo is the best way to get the most major sports channels. Plus, you can usually get about half off your first month. If you want to explore Sling TV and its add-ons, visit the Sling website for more information. Fubo Fubo is a slightly more expensive live TV service, with standard plans starting at $73.99 a month (a recent price reduction following the NBCU blackout on Fubo), but the sports-centric cable alternative offers more than 200 channels at the touch of a button. The service offers everything from local networks to niche, traditionally cable channels, with a few exceptions. The streamer currently offers $25 off its Pro plans, $30 off Elite plans, and $5 off its Latino plan for the first month of service. Fubo's brand-new Sports plan will also knock $10 off the first month of service. The new Fubo Sports + News pack is only available in select areas. It combines 20+ major sports channels (including the new ESPN Unlimited) and select local networks (ABC, CBS, and FOX). Fubo's base plan offers tons of classic channels, including local networks and traditional cable options, but the Elite tier unlocks 4K and even more sports-friendly options. Fubo Latino carries several popular Spanish-language channels, including Telemundo, TUDN, ESPN Deportes, and more. Each plan also comes with unlimited DVR and the ability to watch on two screens. For additional plans and channel information, head to Fubo's website . Philo Philo, the best budget live TV streaming service, offers a more narrow focus than its peers with a wealth of lifestyle and entertainment channels (steering away from news and sports). The streamer also unlocks access to ad-supported HBO Max, AMC+, and Discovery+. Philo recently launched an introductory offer, which knocks your first month down to just $25. If you want your streaming service to cost less per month than a single trip for the family to Starbucks, Philo is made with you in mind. It features over 70 channels for just $33 a month, but it is missing popular sports and local networks. To learn more about the live TV service, you can check out the Philo website . Streaming device deals If you've gotten yourself all set up with a streaming service but you still need a way to watch it on your TV, then you might need to purchase a streaming device. Several of our favorites are on sale this month, including Roku, Amazon Fire TV Stick, and Google TV devices. The 2024 edition of the Roku Ultra has a new processor for speedier performance. It also comes with an updated remote with backlit keys and USB-C charging. Like previous models, this flagship streaming device supports 4K playback with HDR10, HDR10+, and Dolby Vision. Amazon’s Fire TV Stick HD is its entry-level streaming device with Full HD (1080p) streaming and HDR support. This model also has an Alexa voice remote that includes TV controls. This is Amazon's top streaming stick. With its powerful processor and GPU, the Fire TV Stick 4K Max is the fastest streaming device in its price range and now supports console-free Xbox gaming via Game Pass. The Google TV Streamer is the brand's latest 4K streaming device with an improved processor and new set-top box design. It also boasts integration with Google Home for smart device control, and leverages AI to offer personalized content recommendations. You can purchase logo and accolade licensing to this story here. Disclosure: Written and researched by the Insider Reviews team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our partners. We may receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at reviews@businessinsider.com.
