tomashusner@hotmail.com Guest #1 Hello, my name is Tomas and I come from the Czech Republic. I am currently working at a language school where I am supposed to make an English course which should be specialized for car rental companies. I have done it all and I have one last issue. I have to make a front-page where I should include the name of the course. Now I don't know what sounds better in English: a) Car rental English b) English for car rental I don't know what is correct or at least sounds better. If you might have any better ideas how to call it, please let me know. Thank you Tomas #2 Hello, my name is Tomas and I come from the Czech Republic. I am currently working at a language school where I am supposed to make an English course which should be specialized for car rental companies. I have done it all and I have one last issue. I have to make a front-page where I should include the name of the course. Now I don't know what sounds better in English: a) Car rental English b) English for car rental I don't know what is correct or at least sounds better. If you might have any better ideas how to call it, please let me know. Thank you Tomas Neither a teacher nor a native speaker I'd rather say: An English Course in Car Rental :roll: #3 Hello, my name is Tomas and I come from the Czech Republic. I am currently working at a language school where I am supposed to make an English course which should be specialized for car rental companies. I have done it all and I have one last issue. I have to make a front-page where I should include the name of the course. Now I don't know what sounds better in English: a) Car rental English b) English for car rental I don't know what is correct or at least sounds better. If you might have any better ideas how to call it, please let me know. Thank you Tomas Perhaps: "English for Car Rental businesses". #4 Thank you for your replies. What do you think about "English for Car Rental Companies" (inspired by bhaisahab) #5 Would it not depend on whether it is supposed to be AmE or BrE? My British guests seem to refer to a car rental agency as a "Car Hire Agency" In Canada they are classed in the telephone directories as "Automobile rental agencies/companies." Tdol No Longer With Us (RIP) #6 You see both hire and rent used with cars. I think I'd probably use car hire as the noun and rent a car as the verb. (British English speaker) #7 English for Car Rental Personnels/Professionals (the target group of people rather than the companies or businesses)
