Café Haj Paj Annville, PA - Café Haj Paj offers bold, scratch-made cuisine through their quaint café, expert catering, and popular food truck—perfect for events, parties, and festivals across Central Pennsylvania. Website Chef on the Go – Chef Rebecca Briody Mount Gretna, PA - From extravagant buffets to simple hors d'oeuvres, Chef on the Go is always a good idea when it comes to catering events both large and small! Website Country Home Catering Lititz, PA - This catering service features menus for 40 to 800 people with delicious, scratch-made dishes that will impress at any event! Website Elaine’s Catering Lebanon, PA - With over 35 years in the catering business, Elaine's Catering is a great option for full catering services, professional bartending, and drop-off meals! Website Gin Mill Lebanon, PA - The Gin Mill is a locally owned and operated family restaurant and tavern featuring 24 beers on draft and a great wine selection. Website Hebron Catering Lebanon, PA - Hebron Catering and Events Inc. offers expert catering and event hosting for weddings, parties, banquets, and more. Known for exceptional service, delicious food, and tasteful event design, they ensure every occasion is memorable. Heisey’s Diner – Catering Lebanon, PA - Heisey’s Diner offers affordable catering for weddings, banquets, and events, providing homemade meals, cakes, appetizers, and more. With a spacious banquet facility and excellent service, Heisey’s Diner ensures memorable occasions. Website Iron Valley Catering – Iron Valley Golf Club Lebanon, PA - The Miner's Pub at Iron Valley Golf Club offers a variety of catering options including hors d'oeuvres, entrees, and sides for events of all types and sizes. Website Lancaster Cupcake Lebanon, PA - Delight in delicious gourmet cupcakes, cake shakes, JarCakes, and so much more at Lancaster Cupcake! Visit their adorable shop and don't forget to check out their event space and catering for birthdays, weddings, and more. Website Mancino’s Pizza & Catering Lebanon, PA - Mancino's has been serving the Lebanon Valley with delicious pizza for over 40 years. Visit their pizza shop in the Lebanon Valley Mall, order for delivery, or call for catering for your next event! Website Martin’s Roast A Pig – Catering Lebanon, PA - Martin’s Roast-A-Pig specializes in whole pig roasts and full-service catering for weddings, parties, and corporate events. Serving Central PA, they deliver delicious, slow-roasted meats and unforgettable hospitality. Website QT Catering Lebanon, PA - QT Catering offers affordable, restaurant-quality catering for weddings, parties, and corporate events. Their banquet hall seats up to 175 guests and includes linens, seating, and more. Website Swatara Coffee Co. Jonestown, PA - Swatara Coffee Company offers a full espresso menu with our freshly roasted coffee, made-to-order breakfast and lunch sandwiches, avocado toast, and a variety of sweet treats. Enjoy dining-in or grabbing-and-going. Website The Timeless Cafe Lebanon, PA - A breakfast & lunch restaurant committed to serving food made-from-scratch with the freshest ingredients possible. Website
