New York is a city that never sleeps, so it’s no surprise that the demand for event services and event planners is high. The city has everything from weddings to corporate events going on at all times, but not all event planning companies are created equal. Trusting a company to handle your event services is one of the most important aspects of running a successful business. You can have the greatest products and services in the world, but if you don’t have an effective event planning (and marketing) strategy to showcase them, your company will never reach its full potential. This is why it’s so important for companies to invest in professional event services and planners who know how to make their events stand out from those at other businesses. That being said… Here are the top event planning companies in New York you should know about: EMRG Media | Event Services & Event Marketing One of the top event management companies in New York is EMRG Media. Some of the biggest names in New York City are on the client roster of EMRG, which has been around for more than a decade. When you hire them, you’re working with an award-winning team of event planners who have designed and promoted events for some of the most prestigious brands in the world. They’re not just good at planning and marketing events—they’re great at it. Erica Maurer is one of the founders and is also one of the most highly regarded event planners in New York City. Erica has been recognized by her peers as one of the go-to people when it comes to planning and marketing large-scale events that can’t be missed by anyone who’s anyone. It should come as no surprise that she is also a partner at The Event Planner Expo and will be one of the speakers at the 2022 conference. If you need help coming up with ideas or just want someone who can execute them flawlessly on your behalf, she’s your go to. Brilliant Event Planning | Event Services Brilliant Event Planning was founded in 2008 by Sarah Pease, who has over 20 years of experience in event planning and management. The company has grown from its humble beginnings as a small side project to become one of the most sought-after event planning companies in New York City. Their goal is to provide you with the best possible experience for any occasion. Whether you’re planning your wedding or hosting a corporate party, they’ll work with you every step of the way to ensure that everything goes off without a hitch. They know that every event is different, which is why they offer a wide range of services including: Venue selection and booking Event design and styling Event management and logistics 23 Layers Jessica Boskoff is the Founder and CEO of 23 Layers – a global event planning and design firm. They Provide individual as well as corporate clients services in planning events, including corporate and experimental events, milestones and celebrations, weddings and showers, photo shoots and styling to name a few. 23 Layers has been recognized by the New York City Economic Development Corporation (NYCEDC) as one of their top four small business success stories. They have also been featured on countless television shows including Good Morning America, The Today Show, Fox News, ABC News Live, CBS Morning Show and others. Eventique Eventique has been around since 2008 and is a legendary event planning company in New York. Eventique has established itself as a reputable event planning company. The company is known for its professional and thorough approach to event planning, which takes into account all aspects of an organization’s needs, including logistics, costs and publicity. Eventique has earned many positive reviews from clients who have used their services. These testimonials can be found on the company’s website as well as on other review sites around the Internet. They have experience with all kinds of events including weddings, corporate events, holiday parties and galas. They’ve helped hundreds of clients plan their special event, and they have an incredible team that is dedicated to making your event a success. Save The Date Founded by Jennifer Gilbert , Save The Date is a 25-year-old company that started by providing simple solutions to help planners find their ideal venues has become an award-winning company that understands and provides the best experience to its clients. The company is well known for its distinctive approach to event planning, which combines a keen eye for detail with an appreciation for the unique needs and interests of each client. Save The Date has been recognized for their expertise in the field of event planning by numerous publications, including the New York Times and Wedding Wire. Conclusion You can’t go wrong with any of these New York event planning companies . They have been around for years, are well-known in their industry and have a reputation for excellence that is unmatched by other event planning companies in NYC. So, if you’re looking for help throwing an unforgettable party or wedding then look no further than these top notch event planners! At the upcoming Event Planner Expo in New York , you will have the opportunity to network and mingle with top New York event planners. Be sure to get your tickets now before there’s none to grab!
