About the Graphic Design Program Graphic designers are multi-talented content creators who produce visual concepts and experiences across many different industries. With graphic arts and design, the applications and career opportunities are endless. They develop the overall layout and production design for applications such as social media advertisements, web pages, brochures, magazines, and reports. Apply Now See an Academic Counselor Program Paths Graphic Design Associate in Science or Certificate of Achievement Upon completion of the program, students will be able to solve a variety of communication problems utilizing imagery and typography, will possess fundamental graphic design skills as well as a working knowledge of current technology, and will have the ability to work successfully as an entry-level graphic designer. UX Design Certificate of Achievement User Experience (UX) Design prioritizes the needs and wants of the user. The UX designer's goal is to create useful, meaningful, and ethical/sustainable interactions with a product, service, or design. Project outcomes may also be equally diverse with projects ranging from interactive campaigns to speculative prototypes. Web Design Certificate of Achievement A web designer works to shape the visual and interactive aspects of a user’s experience of a website, web application, or mobile app. In this certificate, students will learn necessary web design skills including application of color theory, typography, layouts, images and graphics, and other elements of design systems. Students will outline user behaviors and interactions, and create portfolio-ready websites for various purposes. Student Work Potential Career Options Salary : $49,076 Typical Education Bachelor Degree What We Offer Salary : $52,000 - $125,000 Typical Education Bachelor Degree What We Offer Salary : $45,000 - $101,000 Typical Education Bachelor Degree What We Offer Resources Student Resources We know college isn't always easy. We are here to help as you navigate through your SMC journey. This resource connects to information about Financial Aid, Tutoring Services, the Center for Wellness and Wellbeing and much more! Center for Media & Design Design classes take place at the Center for Media and Design. Here you can find state of the art equipment, a computer lab with software for your classes, tutoring resources, and more! Student Clubs Clubs are a great way to make friends, network, and build community at SMC. Two clubs specific to Graphic Design are Design Club and Typography Club. You can even create your own club! Featured Faculty Interaction Design (IxD), Transfer, and Career Opportunities Graphic Design is a career education program that does not directly lead to transfer. Students planning to transfer to a four-year college or university should meet with a counselor to discuss which courses need to be taken at SMC before applying to your designer colleges/universities. Interaction Design (IxD) The Graphic Design program prepares students to apply directly to the Interaction Design (IxD) program. This unique program gives students skills and connections through a hands-on, collaborative educational experience. Earn your bachelor’s degree without breaking the bank. Transfers Graphic Design is a career education program that does not directly lead to transfer. Students planning to transfer should talk immediately with an Academic Counselor to discuss what SMC courses will help you transfer. Career Opportunities Our Graphic Design program is designed to have students' career ready. Consider scheduling an appointment with a career advisor with knowledge of the graphic design profession to discuss internship and jobs as well as steps you can take to become job ready.
