Earn Your Graphic Design Degree Online Graphic design is a versatile degree that can lead to opportunities in a variety of industries including entertainment and film, advertising and product development. Our Graphic Design Program teaches you how to apply high design concepts in unique and creative ways to reach a broader audience. Earn your Bachelor of Science in Graphic Design online. As an online student, you’ll build on the foundation of modern design principles and apply it to an experiential learning environment with the support of your online peers. Are you ready to make an impact with your designs? Our Bachelor of Science in Graphic Design Degree is 120 credit hours. Featured Classes Experiential Design Communicate ideas through visual and experimental methods. In this course, students learn the processes of designing products, services and environments focusing on the user experience. Students work in a cross-discipline perspective to market a product or service in ways to persuade, inform, or entertain by creating a content strategy that includes video, interactive media, augmented reality, virtual reality and/or holographs. Motion Design Learn how to incorporate graphics into motion pictures. In this course, students study typography, motion graphics and video for animated segments and live-action sequences. By the end of this course, students learn how to apply design, motion and video used in opening titles, closed captions and rolling credits for film and TV, games and the web. Logos & Symbols Create an impact with a well-designed logo. Students explore how to use graphic elements and typography to create effective logos and symbols. The course examines how organizations use logos and symbols as powerful branding tools. Students analyze how graphic elements and typography can be used to create branding symbols that leave a lasting impression. Your Graphic Design TechKit ® Elevate your creative journey with the essential TechKit for online graphic design. This carefully curated bundle empowers you to bring your ideas to life with precision, portability, and professional-grade tools. Hardware Designed for Creative Expression: Apple MacBook: Experience seamless performance, stunning visuals, and ample storage capacity for creative projects – all packaged in a powerful, portable device. iPad Pro 11-inch (M4) 256 GB & Apple Pencil Gen2: Sketch, draw, and illustrate with incredible precision and responsiveness, unlocking new dimensions for your design process. Protective Case + Tablet Clamp: Keep your iPad secure and transform it into a versatile workstation. Magnus Photo/Video Tripod: Achieve stable shots for photography and video projects. Wireless Mouse: Perform simple gestures on its smooth, seamless surface. Overhead Shooting Bracket Ring Light Set: Illuminate your subject with three color temperature settings for warm, cool, or natural light and 11 brightness levels. Connectivity Hub: Ensure convenient connection and expand your workspace functionality with ease. Software Suite to Fuel Your Imagination: Adobe Creative Cloud: Access the ultimate toolkit for graphic design, illustration, photography, video editing, and digital asset management. Unleash your potential with industry-leading applications. MS Office: Master essential productivity applications like Word, Excel, and PowerPoint, ensuring you’re equipped for effective project management and client communication. The Student Experience Online Our online degree programs bring the entertainment industry directly to you. Learn from industry veterans through our secure Learning Management System (LMS). This user-friendly online platform lets you collaborate with classmates on projects, submit weekly assignments, and access instructor video lectures. On-Demand Webinar Check out our interactive webinar for details on: Online Programs Overview of our degree types and concentrations, and a walk through of the gear and software you’ll receive for your degree. Student Life Curious about how our online classes work? We’ll show you. You’ll also find how you can participate in our virtual and livestream events. Success Stories Find out about what amazing projects our alumni have been working on. Paying for School We walk you through your options for paying for school including: scholarships and grants, Federal Student Aid, military funding and cash payment options. SUCCESS STORIES Wondering where a degree from The Los Angeles Film School can take you? At The L.A. Film School, we don’t just guide you, we champion your success . Our dedicated Career Development team equips you with the tools you need to thrive, from resume writing and interview preparation to landing internships and building valuable industry connections. We’re with you every step of the way, supporting you on your exciting and challenging journey. Did you know? Oscar®-winning sound mixing Phillip Bladh’s career began here. Join our legacy of alumni who have contributed to Oscar®-winning films, GRAMMY®-nominated albums, and RIAA multi-platinum records. Explore more inspiring success stories
