Graphic Design Courses Adobe Photoshop Elements IN PERSON You love your photos! Learn to use Photoshop Elements to show them off! Fix your photos, add artistic effects, and even combine images with Photoshop Elements! Note: Digital Photo Basics, Computer Basics, or some basic computer skills. Video Basics & Creation for Beginners Take your photographs and video footage from your phone, digital camera, or printed stills and compose these into memorable video presentations. Learn the terminology, best practices, and tips from an experienced instructor using free software for Windows, Mac OSX, Linux, and Google Chrome based computers! You will also learn how to create, edit and use your own voice to narrate the videos that you compose with free available software tools. From weddings, family, travel, business, and adventure, all of us have memories captured in photos and videos. Learn how to make these come alive in a remarkable presentation! Adobe Premiere Pro Level 1 (create header) IN PERSON Adobe Premiere Pro is a video editing application that is utilized by everyone from YouTube to cable news networks to Academy Award-nominated blockbusters. Note: Students must have a basic understanding of computers. It would be advantageous if you had some prior familiarity with Adobe software, but it is not needed. • Navigate the interface and pick out its many factors and tools • Create an effective, custom designed modifying interface the usage of workspaces • Develop dynamic name sequences to feature manufacturing price to a project • Add, move, trim, and edit video and audio clips within the video timeline • Create a cuts-simplest video without counting on optical results Adobe Premiere Pro Level 2 (create header) IN PERSON Note: Students must have a basic understanding of computers. It would be advantageous if you had some prior familiarity with Adobe software, but it is not needed. • Employ movement results to scale, rotate, and reposition clips • Assemble a video the usage of storyboard edits to speedy bring together clips • • Dramatize clips using subtle and stylize video transitions • Dramatize clips using subtle and stylize video transitions • Explain the export alternatives in Premiere Pro • Use and supply examples of high-pace modifying strategies to optimize workflow Adobe Premiere Pro Level 3 (create header) IN PERSON Note: Students must have a basic understanding of computers. It would be advantageous if you had some prior familiarity with Adobe software, but it is not needed. • Transform and animate footage • Enhance your audio tracks • Use superior video effects • Use color correction and color grading • Design with innovative compositing techniques • Create lower thirds overlay and closed captioning • Manage assets in huge projects Adobe Premiere Pro Certificate Program (create header) IN PERSON Participants will start from scratch in Premiere Pro. Learn to import clips from diverse sources and incorporate content from other Adobe tools such as Illustrator and Photoshop. Arrange video, image, and audio assets before using Premiere Pro’s features to harness and integrate these raw resources into a video sequence by cutting clips, adding audio, and generating stylistic transitions. In order to add professional touches to projects, advanced editing techniques incorporating motion effects will be explored. Editing multi-camera video shoots, producing title sequences, and distributing completed videos for diverse purposes and platforms are among the other topics covered. Note: Students must have a basic understanding of computers. It would be advantageous if you had some prior familiarity with Adobe software, but it is not needed. Adobe Lightroom Classic (create header) Call to add Adobe Bridge for FREE! IN PERSON Adobe Lightroom Classic is cloud-based program giving you all the tools to create, edit and organize your your photos. Allows you the capability of editing hundreds of photos simultaneously. Note: Students must have a basic understanding of computers. It would be advantageous if you had some prior familiarity with Adobe software, but it is not needed. • Importing and Exporting Photos • Choosing Files Paths • Set up Adobe Lightroom Collections • Edit and add notes to your photos in collection • Editing Photos jpeg or Raw • Practical Editing Skills for Specific looks • Exposure • White Balance • Export for social media and websites • Editing software scopes and histogram • Editing software scopes and histogram • Adobe Dynamic link between Photoshop and Lightroom Adobe Bridge (create header) IN PERSON Note: Students must have a basic understanding of computers. It would be advantageous if you had some prior familiarity with Adobe software, but it is not needed. • Navigate & Use Reading File Structure • Reviewing Content • Choosing Pixel Rate • Metadata • Export Setting • Rating Selection of Film Strip • Set up file paths for your photos Adobe Photoshop (create header) Call to add Adobe Bridge for FREE! IN PERSON Pictures provide any report, presentation, or internet site a professional edge, and Photoshop is the enterprise widespread for running with virtual images. You will discover ways to create and edit your personal virtual portraits and photographs. This hands-on course discusses picture formats, color correction, retouching digital photos, operating with layers, superior selection techniques, and the use of diverse enhancing tools. You will even find out how numerous short restoration strategies and how to put together for each print and web output. Note: Students must have a basic understanding of computers. It would be advantageous if you had some prior familiarity with Adobe software, but it is not needed. • Retouch photos by removing, replacing, and correcting details • Work with layers, which include making use of styles and filters • Enhance and regulate photos with masks and channels • Utilize fine practices to export photos to be used in print and online • Creative use of layers • Brush techniques • More efficient workflow • Tone and color refinement
