Websites. Social media. Video games. Commercials. They all depend on high-quality visuals and great design. If a career in graphic design, UX (User Experience), web design or animation appeals to you, then let the OCC Career Advantage program in Digital Media Arts and Design help you hone your skills and build the portfolio that will set you apart. Learn and work with industry-standard technology and take advantage of internships and mentoring by working professionals. Job opportunities in this expanding field are huge and skilled professionals command high pay. Digital media artists and designers can succeed as freelance artists, or work for some of the region’s top employers like Disney or Blizzard. Watch your creative talent and technical skill open the door to a career in advertising, book and software publishing, gaming or film and video production. Read on to learn more about OCC Career Advantage Programs in DMAD. A sampling of courses for these careers Graphic Design Color and Design: Two Dimensional Lettering and Digital Typography Rapid Illustration Techniques 2-D Animation Web Design for Artists and Graphic Designers WANT TO LEARN MORE? PROGRAM LENGTH COST/FINANCIAL AID AVAILABILITY JOB WAGE OUTLOOK SCHEDULING OPTIONS Program Details Complete a certificate program, and you’ll be well-prepared to enter a career in Digital Media Arts and Design. Earn an associate degree for even greater advancement opportunities. IN LESS THAN 2 YEARS EARN: CERTIFICATE OF ACHIEVEMENT OR EARN YOUR ASSOCIATE DEGREE IN UNDER 4 YEARS View all program details in course catalog Animation Explore animation concepts and gain hands-on experience using industry-standard hardware and software and motion capture systems. Learn techniques in storytelling and character development for both 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional animation. Graphic Design Learn a broad range of media, including 2D and 3D design, animation, illustration, painting, branding, publications, poster, print advertisement, website graphics, billboards and product packing to prepare for an entry-level position in any of a variety of industries. Courses also prepare you for acceptance into a digital arts degree program. UX/UI Design Prepare for an entry-level position in either UX and web design or in animation design. Learn to create original digital art that integrates research, psychology, text, images, animation, video, and other content into effective web designs, interface designs, or 2D and 3D animations. View all program details in course catalog Animation Complete the Animation Certificate of Achievement and the Associate in Science graduation requirements to earn an associates degree. Explore animation concepts and gain hands-on experience using industry-standard hardware and software and motion capture systems. Learn techniques in storytelling and character development for both 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional animation. Graphic Design Complete the Graphic Design Certificate of Achievement and the Associate in Science graduation requirements to earn an associate degree. You will be prepared for an entry-level position in a variety of industries and equipped with a broad range of skills that include: 2D and 3D design, animation, illustration, painting, branding, publications, poster, print advertisement, website graphics, billboards and product packing. UX/UI Design Complete the UX Design Certificate of Achievement and the Associate in Science graduation requirements to earn an associate degree. You will be prepared for an entry-level position in either UX and web design or in animation design and equipped with the skills to create original digital art that integrates research, psychology, text, images, animation, video, and other content into effective web designs, interface designs, or 2D and 3D animations. Frequently Asked Questions Other Programs That Might Interest You INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Choose from a variety of certificates of specialization in computer networking FILM & TELEVISION Explore our certificate programs, which give you the skills you need to get your start in any of a variety of industries COMMERCIAL ART Prepare for a creative career in narrative illustration or art services Did you know? According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, people who have a certificate as their highest level of education earned, on average, 20 percent more than those whose highest education level is a high school diploma.
