Webcams Yosemite Falls, a combination of Upper Yosemite Fall, Middle Cascades, and Lower Yosemite Fall, has a total height of 2,425 feet. In May, you may see Pacific dogwood in bloom just below the waterfall. This webcam image is provided courtesy of Yosemite Conservancy. For permission to feature Yosemite Conservancy webcams, fill out our webcam usage agreement. View Webcam This view of Yosemite Valley from just east of Yosemite Village gives a sense of conditions of the floor of Yosemite Valley. This webcam image is provided courtesy of Yosemite Conservancy. For permission to feature Yosemite Conservancy webcams, fill out our webcam usage agreement. View Webcam Yosemite High Sierra This webcam, located at about 8,000 feet in elevation, shows Half Dome and the surrounding high country. This webcam image is provided courtesy of Yosemite Conservancy. For permission to feature Yosemite Conservancy webcams, fill out our webcam usage agreement. View Webcam El Capitan Located on a dome near the Wawona Tunnel, this webcam provides a nice view of Yosemite Valley. This webcam image is provided courtesy of Yosemite Conservancy. For permission to feature Yosemite Conservancy webcams, fill out our webcam usage agreement. Webcam Tuolumne Meadows (summer only) Yosemite Hospitality operates a webcam at the Tuolumne Meadows Store, giving you a glimpse into the high country during the summer. The prominent dome in the distance is Fairview Dome. View Webcam Status: In service approximately June through September Webcam Turtleback Dome & Air Quality This air quality camera shows the view to the west from near Yosemite Valley and also displays current air quality and weather data. View Webcam Webcam Badger Pass Ski Area Yosemite Hospitality operates a webcam at the Badger Pass Ski Area so you can check current conditions and activity. View Webcam Webcam Merced River at Happy Isles From here, you can see the Merced River as it flows past Yosemite Valley's Happy Isles Gaging Station, which the US Geological Survey has maintained for over 100 years. View Webcam Last updated: November 13, 2025
