Search for a doctor or hospital in your network. Delicious recipes, helpful cooking and nutrition tips. Find food preparation videos and "ask the dietitian!" Get News & Updates Directly To Your Inbox A smartphone is a mobile phone with many of the same functions of a computer, but in the palm of your hand. It uses software applications, or “apps,” to do different tasks. You use apps to make phone calls, send text messages, take photos, browse the internet, play games and much more. Some apps are already loaded on your phone when you buy it. You can download other apps to your phone from an online store. How you use your smartphone and download apps depends on what kind of phone you have. Only Apple makes iPhones. Apple uses an operating system called iOS. You download apps from the Apple App Store while using your phone. Lots of companies make smartphones that run on an Android operating system. Some examples of companies that make Android phones include Samsung, Motorola, Google, Sony, Nokia and more. While you are on your phone, you can download apps from the Google Play Store. How you use your phone’s features depends on what kind of phone you have. The store where you bought your phone, a friend or family member may be able to show you how to use it. For more details on how to use your smartphone, you can find free informational classes and resources at Senior Planet from AARP. Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Oklahoma, a Division of Health Care Service Corporation, a Mutual Legal Reserve Company, an Independent Licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association © Copyright 2025 Health Care Service Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Verint is an operating division of Verint Americas, Inc., an independent company that provides and hosts an online community platform for blogging and access to social media for Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Oklahoma. File is in portable document format (PDF). To view this file, you may need to install a PDF reader program. Most PDF readers are a free download. One option is Adobe ® Reader ® which has a built-in screen reader. Other Adobe accessibility tools and information can be downloaded at https://www.adobe.com/trust/accessibility.html. You are leaving this website/app ("site"). This new site may be offered by a vendor or an independent third party. The site may also contain non-Medicare related information. Some sites may require you to agree to their terms of use and privacy policy. Powered by Verint Last Updated 10012018 Y0096_WEB_OK_CONNECT19_C
