10 Electrical Safety Tips and Rules Learn about these electrical safety tips and how they can be used to avoid electrical hazards in the workplace and at home Published 19 Aug 2025 Article by 3 min read Get a quick Summary and Insights of this Topic with AI (New!) ChatGPT Perplexity Google AI Mode What is Electrical Safety? Electrical safety is a general practice of handling and maintaining electrically powered equipment to prevent incidents. Adequate training is required to properly identify and control hazards to keep the environment safe for those around. 10 Electrical Safety Rules Whether you’re at work or home, both settings operate on electricity. Here are 10 electrical safety tips to help you avoid electrical hazards : 1. Keep electrical equipment away from water Keep water and other liquids at least 5 feet away from electrical equipment and sources of electricity. It is recommended to install Ground Fault Circuit Interrupters (GFCIs) which help prevent electrical incidents like electrical shock, ground faults, fires, overheating, and the destruction of wire insulation. 2. Unplug equipment safely When disconnecting electrical equipment, gently pull it by the plug instead of jerking the electrical cord. Pulling by the cord can damage the electrical cable and cause a shock. 3. Install properly and tidy electrical cords Good electrical installation consists of fixed electrical equipment and electrical cords out of the way (and out of reach of pets that can chew on them). 4. Familiarize yourself with your switchboard A switchboard is an electrical safety device that protects and isolates the operator from electrical current. It controls the flow of electricity by dividing, distributing, and metering electrical power to different parts and devices. To ensure best performance and safety, electrical power entering the switchboard must resemble the amount of power it distributes. Otherwise, it can cause overheating and lead to electrical fire . Create your own Electrical Inspection checklist Build from scratch or choose from our collection of free, ready-to-download, and customizable templates. 5. Look out for electrical lines Be aware of power lines before climbing a tree or a ladder, and especially when working at height. 6. Childproof your outlets Use outlet covers when there are children around to avoid electrocution. 7. Investigate flickering lights Have flickering lights checked and fixed, as it can be caused by loose connections somewhere or the bulb itself needs to be secured or replaced. 8. Install warning signs Use clear visible signs when there’s high voltage in the vicinity that people need to be warned about. 9. Don’t DIY Instead of fixing issues, most DIYs can cause further damage. Should any electrical issues arise, it is always best to have an expert handle it. 10. Call for help In case of an emergency, don’t hesitate to call the emergency services who will talk you through how to safely assist in the situation until help arrives. Improve your EHS Management Cultivate a safe working environment and streamline compliance with our EHS solutions. SafetyCulture Marketplace: Your One-Stop Work Gear & Equipment Shop Improve safety in your workplace with SafetyCulture Marketplace as your one-stop shop for all work gear and equipment needs. Get on-demand access to top quality and specialized work gear from trusted equipment brands in the industry—all in one centralized location. Raise the bar of safety and efficiency by empowering employees to request what they need with just a few taps, anytime and anywhere! Follow Electrical Safety Rules with SafetyCulture Electrical Safety Checklist Using a digital electrical safety checklist and performing regular self-inspections can help you identify potential electrical hazards and strategize on better preventive measures. Get started with our free collection of SafetyCulture (formerly iAuditor) electrical safety checklists you can use on your worksite. FAQs about 10 Electrical Safety Rules Article by SafetyCulture Content Team SafetyCulture Content Contributor, SafetyCulture View author profile In this article What is Electrical Safety? 10 Electrical Safety Rules 1. Keep electrical equipment away from water 2. Unplug equipment safely 3. Install properly and tidy electrical cords 4. Familiarize yourself with your switchboard 5. Look out for electrical lines 6. Childproof your outlets 7. Investigate flickering lights 8. Install warning signs 9. Don’t DIY 10. Call for help SafetyCulture Marketplace: Your One-Stop Work Gear & Equipment Shop Follow Electrical Safety Rules with SafetyCulture FAQs about 10 Electrical Safety Rules Related articles Safety Electrical Safety Hydroelectric Power: An Introduction for Organizations Learn what hydroelectric power is, its uses, benefits, and some of the barriers to its adoption among organizations. Safety Safety Management Lone Worker Solutions to Protect Remote Workers Find out how lone worker solutions can ensure that remote workers stay connected and safe in real-time. Safety Warehouse Safety A Comprehensive Guide to Material Handling Equipment (MHE) Training Discover how MHE training improves safety, compliance, and effectiveness in your warehouse’s material handling work.
