If you purchase an independently reviewed product or service through a link on our website, The Hollywood Reporter may receive an affiliate commission. It’s never been easier to cut the cord with some of the best deals on live TV streaming services and on-demand video platforms for Labor Day. DirecTV is offering $35 off your first month and the new Disney+, Hulu and ESPN Unlimited bundle for free to eligible subscribers. Otherwise, get the Disney+, Hulu and ESPN Unlimited plan for only $29.99 per month for your first 12 months when you sign up directly through Disney through Jan. 5, 2026. Hulu has the best free trial offer with 30 days to watch its library of Emmy-winning TV series such as The Handmaid’s Tale , Only Murders in the Building and The Bear ; podcast star Alex Cooper’s docuseries, Call Her Alex ; and more hit content. Related Stories You can also get select streamers for free with memberships to other services. Instacart+ members get Peacock’s ad-supported Premium plan for free, Verizon Wireless subscribers get six free months of Disney+ Premium, DoorDash DashPass members get HBO Max for free and members of Walmart+ and customers of T-Mobile’s All-In Home Internet plan get Paramount+’s ad-supported Essential plan for free. The Labor Day streaming deals follow streamers’ recent price hikes. After nabbing 81 Emmy nominations for The Studio , Severance and other series, Apple TV+ raised its monthly rate to $12.99, while Peacock‘s most popular Premium plan now starts at $10.99 per month. For both streaming services, subscribers will get the best deal with annual plans: Peacock starts at $79.99 per year (or 12 months for the price of 10), and Apple TV+ is still just $99.99 annually (a 35 percent savings compared to monthly billing). For those unfamiliar with how streaming services work, all most people need is an internet connection to watch live TV and on-demand movies and shows. (Those in more rural areas may need satellite service.) Online cable alternatives such as Hulu + Live TV, DirecTV, Fubo, YouTube TV and others allow subscribers to watch local channels (including ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, CW and others) as well as national news, entertainment and sports networks such as CNN, MSNBC, Fox News, FS1, TBS, TNT, Lifetime, Investigation Discovery, Paramount Network and more. At a Glance: The Best Streaming Service Free Trials and Deals Right Now AMC+: Free seven-day trial at Prime Video Apple TV+: Free seven-day trial (also available at Prime Video) BET+: Free seven-day trial at Prime Video Disney+, Hulu, ESPN Unlimited: Free with DirecTV DirecTV: Free five-day trial; first month as low as $59.99 Frndly: Free seven-day trial Fubo: Free seven-day trial Hulu: Free 30-day trial Hulu + Live TV: Free three-day trial Paramount+: Free seven-day trial (also available at Prime Video) Peacock: Free Peacock Premium with Instacart+ membership Prime Video: Free 30-day trial Philo: Free seven-day trial Sling: Take up to 50 percent off first month For those who don’t need live access to TV, streaming services such as Disney+, Hulu, Paramount+, Peacock, Starz, HBO Max and mother platforms offer on-demand access to original films, TV series, documentaries and other content Below, we’ve rounded up all the best deals on streaming video-on-demand services and web-based TV providers, including DirecTV, Hulu, Starz and others. The Best Deals on Streaming Services in 2025 AMC+ Get a free seven-day trial when you add AMC+ to your Prime Video subscription. Apple TV+ Try Apple TV+ (including through Prime Video) free for seven days to get a taste of award-winning Apple original series, Oscar-winning films Killers of the Flower Moon and CODA , Emmy-winning shows Ted Lasso and The Morning Show , Friday Night Baseball, soccer matches with the MLS Season Pass and more. Free with select T-Mobile Experience plans Save on Apple One with select Verizon Unlimited plans Free 90-day trial with purchase of select Apple devices DirecTV In addition to the five-day free trial, eligible new subscribers can get DirecTV for as low as $59.99 for the first month (or $35 off), two free months of the HBO Max add-on or the new Disney+, Hulu and ESPN Unlimited bundle for free. Other DirecTV plans are on sale from on sale $79.99 to $124.99 for the first month and come with 90 to 185 or more sports, news and entertainment networks, including local ABC, CBS and NBC channels alongside CNN, ESPN, Food Network, ACCN, Ion TV, Investigation Discovery, Lifetime and more. Satellite plans are also available; learn more and sign up for DirecTV here. The Best DirecTV streaming deals: Free Disney+, Hulu & ESPN Unlimited for eligible subscribers First month on sale for as low as $59.99 Five-day free trial Up to $750 in value for AAA members Two free months of HBO Max add-on Free DirecTV Sports Pack for the first month Free Peacock and DirecTV Sports Pack for one month Disney+ Disney+ doesn’t offer a free trial period as of press time, but there are other ways to save on the House of the Mouse’s streaming service. Verizon offers six free months of Disney+ with select wireless packages, while Disney bundles let you save over 40 percent compared to individual subscriptions, and you’ll get access to content to Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ and HBO Max, depending on the package you choose. Get six free months of Disney+ Premium with select Verizon wireless plans Get the equivalent of two months free with annual Disney+ subscription ESPN Unlimited, Disney+ and Hulu Bundle One of the best deals for fans of sports, TV and Disney is the Disney+, ESPN Unlimited and Hulu bundle for $29.99 per month with ads or $38.99 monthly without ads. Available to eligible new subscribers through Jan. 5, 2026, the package is about 40 percent off compared to individual subscriptions and autorenews at $35.99 to $44.99 per month after the first 12 months. (ESPN Unlimited is $29.99 per month on its own.) Learn more here. Frndly One of the most affordable live TV streaming services, Frndly offers a seven-day free trial and starts at $6.99 per month (with annual billing) for over 50 lifestyle and entertainment channels. Fubo As of press time, Fubo’s best streaming deal gets you a five-day free trial and your first month of service for as low as $24.99 per month. HBO Max Now called HBO Max (again), the Warner Bros. Discovery-owned streaming service doesn’t offer a free trial as of press time. The best deal on HBO Max is surprisingly at DoorDash, which offers the streamer’s ad-supported Basic plan for free with annual DashPass memberships for $8 per month. It’s worth noting that AT&T no longer offers HBO Max with its wireless packages. (After AT&T-owned WarnerMedia merged with Discovery, the new company, Warner Bros. Discovery, discontinued streaming perks.) The Best HBO Max streaming deals: Free with annual DoorDash Dashpass membership Two months free through DirecTV Free Netflix and HBO Max with ads with select Verizon Wireless plans Hulu Hulu’s best streaming deal right now is with its 30-day free trial for the ad-supported plan, which auto-renews at just $9.99 per month. Save more than 40 percent when you expand your content library with Hulu’s bundles with Disney+, ESPN+ and HBO Max (from $10.99 per month) or get a three-day free trial with Hulu + Live TV that includes live TV streaming, Hulu, Disney+ and ESPN+ for $82.99 per month. 30-day free trial for Hulu (With Ads) Three-day free trial for Hulu + Live TV Save more than 40 percent off with Disney+, Hulu and ESPN+ bundles Get Hulu (With Ads) for free with select T-Mobile Experience and All-In Home Internet plans Hulu + Live TV Hulu + Live TV offers a three-day free trial to test out its TV streaming service, which comes bundled with Disney+ and ESPN+ (each costs $9.99 per month and up separately) and more than 95 local and major cable news, entertainment and sports channels. MGM+ Get a free seven-day trial of MGM+ when you add the channel to Prime Video. Netflix Get Netflix Standard with Ads (regularly $7.99/mo.) with T-Mobile’s Experience Beyond or Experience More packages; you can also upgrade to the ad-free tier at a discount. Verizon Wireless customers can also get Netflix and HBO Max with ads bundled together for only $10 per month (a savings of more than 50 percent monthly). Free Netflix Standard with Ads with select T-Mobile Experience plans Free Netflix and HBO Max with ads with select Verizon Wireless plans Paramount+ Paramount+ doesn’t have any streaming deals at the moment, but new subscribers can try the streaming service for free with a one-week trial. Paramount+ Essential is also included for free with Walmart+ memberships and the T-Mobile All-In Home Internet plan. Best Paramount+ subscription deals: Free seven-day trial Fre Paramount+ Essential with Walmart+ membership Free Paramount+ Essential with T-Mobile All-In Home Internet plan Peacock Peacock recently raised its prices by $3 per month, so the best way to lock in the best deal is by signing up for an annual plan. The NBCUniversal streaming service is now $79.99 per year ($7.99/mo.) for the basic Select plan, $109.99 per year (or $10.99/mo.) for the ad-supported Premium plan or $169.99 annually ($15.99/mo.) for the ad-free Premium Plus package. Although Peacock isn’t currently offering any free trials or deals, you can get the ad-supported plan for free with a subscription to Instacart+ ($99 per year). The best Peacock streaming deals: Free Peacock Premium with Instacart+ membership Get 12 months for the price of 10 with Peacock annual plans Philo At $28 per month, Philo offers one of the best deals on TV streaming. New subscribers get their first seven days for free. Prime Video Prime Video offers a generous 30-day free trial for new subscribers, and the streaming service is also included with Prime membership ($14.99 per month or $139 annually). Select Prime Video channels also offer free trials, including Apple TV+, Paramount+ and others. You can also try Amazon Prime free for 30 days; the membership includes access to free same-, one- and two-day shipping on millions of products; access to exclusive deals and sale events (like Prime Day, Black Friday and Cyber Monday sales); unlimited photo storage; in-store discounts at Whole Foods Market and Amazon Fresh grocery stores; and more. The Best Prime Video streaming deals right now: Get Prime Video free with 30-day trial (eligible new subscribers only) Get Amazon Prime with Prime Video free with Metro by T-Mobile service Sling TV One of the best TV streaming services for sports fans, Sling recently launched the affordable Select base plan that includes more than 10 popular cable channels starting at $29.99 per month, and customizable short-term Day, Week, Weekend and Season Passes for $4.99 to $199. Sling TV offers more options with the individual Orange and Blue packages and the combined Orange + Blue tier. Plans include 30 or more news, entertainment and sports channels, and you can expand your network with the Sports Extra add-on, which includes Tennis Channel, NBA TV, ACCN, UESPN, MLB Network, NHL Network, SEC, ESPN News and more. The best Sling TV streaming deals: Save on Sling TV with Day, Week, Weekend or Season Passes starting at $4.99 Starz Try Starz for $3 per month for your first three months when you sign up for the monthly plan or save 43 percent when you get the pre-paid annual plan for $29.99 per year (reg. $69.99 annually). THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day
