You can sell digital assets and online businesses. This includes SaaS assets, apps, eCommerce, blogs, communities and plugins. We have a global buyer base and this includes individuals and institutional investors like Private Equity and Family Offices. The Flippa buy-side ecosystem are looking for high performance assets and will assess financial and operational performance as well as more arbitrary measurements like audience size. Flippa charges to access the platform services and also a success fee. The Entry Level Package starts at $29 and success fees start from 3%. You can also choose to upgrade and get access to enhanced reach and additional services to support you through the sales process. For more information related to Flippa fees and services, refer Flippa Pricing. We have seen online businesses sell within 48 hours, though it’s very price and category dependent. In general lower value deals close quickest (as you would expect), with most deals sub $50,000 closing within 50 days of going live. Median closing time (for businesses sold in 2023): The sale time includes matching you to relevant buyers, negotiation, due diligence, asset and funds transfer. When you choose to partner with Flippa in the sale of your business we aim to optimize for the highest possible sale price. This includes benchmarking your asset(s) with those that are similar as well as understanding the universal buyer pool for your assets. If you are looking for an indicative valuation, you can also get a valuation using Flippa's proprietary data driven valuation tool here. The Flippa marketplace experience relies on there being trust between buyer and seller. Accuracy and integrity is paramount. We ask that you can verify all information and Flippa reserves the right to remove any listing or cancel any sale where information and / or data cannot be verified. Yes, you can sell your business on Flippa even if it is not currently profitable. Flippa caters to a wide range of businesses, including startups, apps, websites, and Ecommerce stores, regardless of their current profitability. The platform offers an opportunity to find buyers who are interested in potential rather than just current earnings. They might be looking for businesses they can turn around, enter a new market, or integrate with their existing operations. It's important to be transparent about your business's financials and potential for future profitability to attract the right buyers. Selling your business with Flippa offers several advantages: To sell your business quickly on Flippa, consider the following tips: Remember, while selling fast is desirable, ensuring you find the right buyer who values your business appropriately is also important for a successful transaction. Flippa is a global online marketplace where individuals and business owners buy and sell websites, online businesses and other digital real estate. On Flippa sellers are selling their passion projects, side hustles and online businesses. We make the process super easy by connecting you with these sellers and streamlining negotiation and the transaction. We have an integrated offers platform. You can safely use our escrow services, contracts of sale and sales support team. 17,000 new buyers join monthly. We provide them with more choice and absolute transparency. © 2025 Flippa.com Pty Ltd. All rights reserved.
