No Consulting - is it worth it? Dear fellow monkeys, I am right now doing my Bachelor's in IT, I have so far an internship at an IT implementation consultancy, an internship at a Big4 and I am about to do an internship in one of the big car manufactories in digital/strategy. I also already applied for an internship at a t2 and got accepted (I rejected it because I did not have time, I just wanted to learn about the procedure). I also am the kind of person who focuses on one goal and tries everything possible to reach it. My goal is MBB since this is what I figured would be the pinnacle of consulting. At both the IT firm and the Big4 I had a talk with my manager about my career and stuff, and they warned me that I could lose myself in work, could lose my family and friends, could lose my health and the person I am. So far I didn't really listen to it. After all, I knew that management consulting isn't a 9-5. And it's much better than IB, too. The pay is great and the exit options are even better. I have the opportunity to work abroad or stay in Germany, and I could exit anytime and get a well-paid management position at a car company or IT company. I already have searched out my targeted school for my MiM after my bachelor's, but now I start questioning my plan. I had the opportunity to talk to a bunch of partners, both at MBB, T2 and Big4 and the story I've heard was always the same: young, ambitious, went into consulting for a few years, hoping to exit but got lost in the fast-moving working environment and the interesting but demanding work. That sounds like something that would happen to me too. With my profile, I could also get into a good entry position in the industry, while being able to keep a great WLB (in Germany, thanks to unions you usually work 35h in automotive). But then I would never know if I'd made it. Long story short, I am quite indecisive about the whole thing. I love to grind and to work toward a goal, so I'm not sure if that could kill my motivation completely. Would you go again into consulting if you had to start over? And do you have any tips to keep a decent WLB, including sports, partner, and friends or will I have to give some up? Thank you for any advice! No Consulting - is it worth it? Dear fellow monkeys, I am right now doing my Bachelor's in IT, I have so far an internship at an IT implementation consultancy, an internship at a Big4 and I am about to do an internship in one of the big car manufactories in digital/strategy. I also already applied for an internship at a t2 and got accepted (I rejected it because I did not have time, I just wanted to learn about the procedure). I also am the kind of person who focuses on one goal and tries everything possible to reach it. My goal is MBB since this is what I figured would be the pinnacle of consulting. At both the IT firm and the Big4 I had a talk with my manager about my career and stuff, and they warned me that I could lose myself in work, could lose my family and friends, could lose my health and the person I am. So far I didn't really listen to it. After all, I knew that management consulting isn't a 9-5. And it's much better than IB, too. The pay is great and the exit options are even better. I have the opportunity to work abroad or stay in Germany, and I could exit anytime and get a well-paid management position at a car company or IT company. I already have searched out my targeted school for my MiM after my bachelor's, but now I start questioning my plan. I had the opportunity to talk to a bunch of partners, both at MBB, T2 and Big4 and the story I've heard was always the same: young, ambitious, went into consulting for a few years, hoping to exit but got lost in the fast-moving working environment and the interesting but demanding work. That sounds like something that would happen to me too. With my profile, I could also get into a good entry position in the industry, while being able to keep a great WLB (in Germany, thanks to unions you usually work 35h in automotive). But then I would never know if I'd made it. Long story short, I am quite indecisive about the whole thing. I love to grind and to work toward a goal, so I'm not sure if that could kill my motivation completely. Would you go again into consulting if you had to start over? And do you have any tips to keep a decent WLB, including sports, partner, and friends or will I have to give some up? Thank you for any advice!
