How Much Does It Cost To Remodel a House? Here’s the Step-By-Step Breakdown Remodeling and Renovation Tips We’ve gathered the average costs for common remodeling jobs, answered a few of your most-asked questions, and even left some tips to help you get started. Read on to learn everything you need to know before you even take down a picture frame. Whole House Remodel vs. Whole House Renovation The first question to ask yourself: Are you remodeling or renovating? Renovations involve cosmetic changes to alter the appearance of a home without changing the overall structure. Home remodels do exactly what they say — remodel the existing structure of a home. It can be creating an addition on the outside of your home or adding a shower to your bathroom. Renovations are more for bringing something out of disrepair into a good state, while remodels are about changing the form of a room. The average cost to renovate a house vs. to remodel can vary. We’re here to break down the average you can expect to spend on your remodel. You can get an idea for how much your home remodel will run you if you get a sense of the averages before you begin. Average Cost to Remodel a House Minor home remodel: $15,000 - $45,000 Moderate home remodel: $46,000 - $70,000 Whole house remodel: $71,000+ You’ll find that the average cost to renovate a house is slightly higher, with the normal range falling between $19,524 and $87,743. Overall, what you end up spending can differ depending on a lot of factors, including where you live, what changes you want to make, and the age and size of your home. Average Cost Based on Size Cost to remodel 1,000 square feet: $10,000 - $60,000 Cost to remodel 1,500 square feet: $15,000 - $90,000 Cost to remodel 2,000 square feet: $20,000 - $120,000 Average Cost Based on Room Looking to remodel just a few rooms instead of the entire house? Here are the averages, broken down by room. Kitchen Range: $14,597 - $41,482 Average: $26,945 No matter your budget, cabinets are likely to take up the majority of it, followed by flooring, countertops, and then appliances and lighting. You can save on cabinets by painting or refinishing your old ones, and opting for cheaper finishes throughout can help you get a better bang for your buck. Bathroom Range: $6,634 - $17,594 Average: $12,080 In your bathroom, you’re likely to spend the most on plumbing, electrical, and any necessary repairs from water damage or moisture if it’s accumulated. Of course, the finishes you choose will have a say in the overall price, but also consider whether you have to make accessibility fixes or changes. If the answer is yes, be sure to add a few extra thousand dollars onto your budget. Garage Range: $7,000 - $30,000 Average: $18,000 The average size of a one-car garage is around 250 square feet, while the average size of a four-car garage is around 900. That’s why it’s so important to know the numbers if you’re deciding to add onto your existing garage — even more if you plan on converting your garage into a living space. Bedroom Range: $4,000 - $40,000 Average: $20,000 A basic bedroom remodel might include new flooring, a coat of paint, and some closet upgrades. That will definitely land you in the lower end of this price range, but if you’re looking to add on or put up new walls, that’ll end up eating away at your final cost. Basement Range: $12,027 - $34,346 Average: $22,643 A basement remodel can be a confusing task, but that’s because there are so many different possibilities for the space. Simply opting for new paint or changing the flooring can cost around $2,000, but if you want to convert your basement into a living space, complete with a new bathroom, added walls, and brand new finishes, you’re likely to end up in the higher end of this range. There are some projects that are too big or risky to DIY. Read on for information on when you should call in a contractor. When You Should Hire vs. When You Should DIY Choosing to hire a contractor vs. DIYing everything can have a major effect on the overall cost to remodel a house, but some things are simply best left to the professionals. Here are a few projects we suggest hiring someone to complete: Electrical Plumbing Tile work A professional electrician or plumber is going to have a much deeper understanding of what your home needs, and they’re going to ensure it’s all done right the first time around. Choosing to carry out this work with no experience yourself can lead to mistakes, which will end up costing more in the end anyway. The best part? They can handle the permits you’ll need, and they’re likely to know the entire process in your local area. They also come with the tools and can take care of cleanup. And, let’s face it, if you’ve never laid tile before, they’re a lot more likely to have a steady hand when cutting and lining things up. That doesn’t mean you can’t DIY other parts of your remodel, though, like painting and installing appliances. Factors That Affect Overall Cost No matter what project you decide to take on, there are a few factors that will affect the overall cost every single time. Here are a few questions to ask yourself when creating your budget. How Big Is Your Home? You’ll hear this a lot during your remodel, but the size of your home will have an impact on your budget, and it can help you get a realistic idea of your overall costs. Making use of free estimates, doing plenty of research, and having concise measurements on hand can all help you get a realistic idea about your costs. Once you have this, it’s easier to gather estimates on things like materials, appliances, and even furniture. If it ends up going beyond your expectations, you can reassess and even readjust. Can you opt for refurbished or thrifted furniture over brand new? What are you able to DIY throughout the remodel? How Much Work Do You Need Done? How Many Times Are You Willing To Say Yes? When you’re remodeling, it’s easy to say, “Yeah, go ahead and get that done while you’re at it!” — whether you’re working with a professional or you’re talking with your partner. While some of these costs are necessary, it’s smart to place a limit on how many times you’re going to “just get it done.” A great thing you can do is make a list of quick criteria those last-minute decisions have to meet first. Is this going to put you over budget? Will it affect your daily life? Is it something you’re going to get a lot of use out of? If you answer yes to all three of those questions but can quickly justify the extra expense, then it’s probably going to be worth it in the end. If you can’t, then it might be best to cut the cost. Cost to Remodel a House — FAQs Q: Is $100,000 enough to renovate a house? A: Yes, $100,000 is enough to renovate a house — especially when you consider the average for a whole-home remodel starts at $71,000. Q: Is $50,000 enough to renovate a house? A: While $50,000 can be enough to renovate a house, you’ll likely find yourself prioritizing certain rooms over others. This also depends on the size of your home and what you’re looking to get from the remodel itself, but DIYing where you can, opting for thrifted furniture, and not going for all the high-end versions of items is a great way to ensure you stay within your home remodel budget. Q: How much should you spend on a remodel? A: The exact number depends on the value of your home, but as a general rule, you shouldn’t spend more than 10 to 15 percent of your home’s overall value on a single room when remodeling. Q: What is the most expensive thing when renovating a house? A: When renovating a house, the kitchen is likely to be the most expensive thing. The other more expensive renovations include the bathroom, creating home additions, and renovating the entire exterior of your home. Q: How long does it take to remodel a house? A: Minor remodels can take anywhere from a few days to a few months, a moderate home remodel can take several weeks to six months, while a whole home remodel can take six months to over a year. The biggest thing that will affect your remodel timeline is whether you DIY or hire someone to take care of it all. Q: How long does it take to renovate a house? A: A smaller home can take anywhere from seven to 10 months, while a larger home can take 10 to 15 months. The time can be minimized to just a few days if you’re taking care of cosmetic changes in different rooms, though. Getting your plans straight is the key to the most cost-efficient home remodel . Tips for Remodeling Your Home Whether you’re embarking on a whole-home renovation journey or you’re opting for a few rooms, there are some tips that will help you the entire way through. Here are four of our biggest tips. 1. Plan Ahead. Have a checklist on hand, establish your budget, and think about where you want to start. Remember to throw in extra time and money for potential hiccups throughout the process, because things can go wrong, and it’ll be up to you to handle them as they do. Making time to establish a solid system and gather a list of trusted resources is a great idea. 2. Ask for Referrals. The best place to find that support? Your friends, family, and the ever-trusted Google reviews. Start by asking friends and family for referrals, and then use online resources to vet their recommendations and find the best option for you. If you’re working with a designer, working with their contractor is usually a good idea because the line of communication has already been established. You’re less likely to face tie-ups and delays throughout your remodel. If not, work with the vendors and suppliers that your contractor has established — you'll likely find the process to be a lot easier than you originally thought. 3. Consider Return on Investment (ROI). The most important part is choosing the right remodel ideas and considering what’s going to sell well if you’re looking to move soon. The cost to remodel a house is well worth the investment if you know what to prioritize. 4. Have Everything On-Site. Finally, make your life easy from the start and plan storage ahead of time. Whether you’re doing things yourself or trusting a contractor, having a dedicated place for extra belongings or even spare tools is going to save a lot of headaches along the way. Set your space up with the essentials and then trust PODS to take care of the rest. PODS makes renovations easier, with your stuff just a doorway away. Trust PODS To Help You Get the Job Done Let’s face it — remodels are messy. Whether you have spare tools spread about the garage or appliances in the way before installation, renting a PODS storage container can help. Have it delivered straight to your driveway and use it to keep your home from becoming a construction zone. Carry out your home remodel in peace and let PODS take care of the rest. Kat Piccolo is a St. Petersburg-based freelance writer whose only roommate is their cat. A member of the PODS Blog creative team, Kat loves finding ways to make moving into new spaces simple and stress-free. Between yearly apartment hopping, you can find them on the waterfront or experimenting with new ways to make coffee. Your quote in 60 seconds Get pricing tailored to your needs!
