Nonsurgical weight loss options Led by obesity medicine specialists and nurses, our medically managed weight-loss services offer effective treatments for obesity. We’ll create an individualized care plan to help you achieve long-term success. Medically supervised nonsurgical weight loss at Penn Medicine Achieving and maintaining a healthy weight is a lifelong pursuit. Throughout that journey, the weight management option that works best for you may change at different times depending on your health and goals. For some people, obesity medications coupled with guidance on diet and physical activity lead to successful weight loss and health goals without surgery. For others, lifestyle changes in combination with weight loss surgery is needed to provide long-lasting weight loss and improve their health. Regardless of your circumstance, Penn Medicine’s bariatric surgery and weight management team offers comprehensive treatment options that fit your needs. We offer nonsurgical medication management, dietitian consultations, and lifestyle support at every program location. If you and your provider decide surgery is a better option after trying medications, you receive care from the same support team. Exercise planning Exercise and physical activity play a central role in weight management. Our weight loss specialists can help you create a realistic fitness plan that helps you safely and comfortably achieve your wellness goals. Nutrition counseling services Successful weight loss requires a commitment to changing your diet. Our registered dietitians provide personalized support to help you adapt your eating habits to help you lose weight and have more energy. During your initial nutrition consultation, our dietitians will review and analyze your current diet. They create an individualized meal plan, tailored to your needs and preferences. In follow-up sessions, you’ll continue to learn about important lifestyle changes and behavior strategies to enhance your weight management efforts. Our dietitians can also teach you about specific foods and nutrients that support a healthy weight. You’ll learn how to read food labels, modify dishes to suit your goals and needs, meal plan and grocery shop in a healthy way, and make appropriate choices when eating out. Prescription weight loss medications For people with a BMI (body mass index) of 30 or higher or BMI of 27 or higher with weight-related conditions like Type 2 diabetes or high blood pressure, FDA-approved medications for weight management may be an option. These drugs include GLP-1 agonists, which mimic hormones your body releases that make you feel full and reduce your appetite and cravings for food. GLP-1 agonist medications may be prescribed as injections or oral pills. The most common ones include: Liraglutide (brand name Saxenda) Semaglutide (brand name Wegovy) Tirzepatide (brand name Zepbound) Although results vary, studies indicate medications can help people lose up to 20 percent or more of their body weight. For optimal results, we recommend combining weight loss medications with diet and lifestyle modifications overseen by a professional clinician. We offer supportive nutrition and mental health counseling services you may not find from retail or primary care providers. Our specialists address behaviors that cause weight gain, like emotional triggers or lack of sleep. Together, these treatments can help you achieve long-lasting weight loss. At each of our locations throughout the Philadelphia region, Lancaster, and Princeton, we have obesity medicine physicians and nurse practitioners that you can see to help you manage the GLP-1 obesity medications. Compassionate care throughout your weight loss journey You’re never alone on your path to better health. At Penn Medicine, you have access to an entire team of caring bariatric medicine specialists and services for weight loss patient support. With support groups, social services, specialized care for weight-related health conditions, and more, we make your wellness our priority. Our doctors Our providers work with you to plan and deliver exceptional treatment and personalized care. Locations Our hospitals, multispecialty medical centers, pharmacies, labs and more offer outstanding, personalized care for patients all across the region.
