Tufts University research on Food Prices for Nutrition shows how the cost and affordability of healthy diets can be used to monitor food access and guide intervention. Our methods start with data on availability and price that is routinely collected around the world. We match item descriptions to food composition, and measure access to healthy diets using the least expensive locally available items that would meet national guidelines and global targets. Our project supports the work of national governments, international organizations, and educational institutions, leading to large-scale adoption and use of these metrics. You can scroll down or click to see funding and origins of our work. Our mission is to equip governments and civil society with accurate, updated metrics to monitor the cost and affordability of healthy diets, for use in guiding agriculture and food system change. We envision a global food system that brings healthy diets within reach of all people at all times. Food Prices for Nutrition work led by Tufts University developed the methods behind FAO and World Bank estimates that about 2.6 billion people in 2024 could not afford a healthy diet, as published in the FAO, IFAD, UNICEF, WFP and WHO annual flagship report on The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World and simultaneously in the World Bank’s Food Prices for Nutrition Datahub. During the 2020-25 period, Tufts University also provided technical support for local monitoring of access to healthy diets in Ethiopia, Ghana, Malawi, Nigeria and Pakistan; from 2026 onwards, technical assistance to national governments will be scaled and sustained by the FAO, while Tufts University research will provide analytical support for national government actions to improve affordability of healthy diets especially in Africa and South Asia. Why these metrics? Our metrics help identify the causes of poor diet quality Cost and affordability of a healthy diet metrics can help identify actions to improve nutrition by distinguishing among three possible causes of poor diet quality: unusually high for the least expensive items needed from each food group, thereby revealing opportunities to improve diet quality through supporting production and distribution; prices inadequate to buy sufficient quantities of the lowest-cost items needed for a healthy diet, thereby revealing the need for higher earnings or safety nets and social assistance; and also income s any of foods in a low-cost healthy diet by other items for reasons other than price and nutritional value, such as taste and preferences, time use and cooking costs or aspirations shaped by marketing, thereby revealing the need for innovations to meet those goals with foods that also meet health needs at low monetary cost. displacement A recent summary of our methods and results is this 20-min. explainer video from a talk for U.S. audiences at the National Academies, with more details available from our publications and outreach through diverse media and worldwide events. Food prices create a ladder of affordability When healthy diets are unaffordable, food prices relative to available income are an insurmountable barrier to reaching international standards of diet quality. Among affordable diets, many other factors also influence food choice, but even the least expensive items for each step up in diet quality are have a higher cost per day: Our work combines existing datasets to measure the cost and affordability of each step up in diet quality, based on the retail consumer prices and nutritional composition of items available in local markets. The resulting metrics provide an operational measure of access to healthy diets, for use in monitoring the food and nutrition security of vulnerable populations. The diet cost metrics we use, as summarized on the methods page, are based on identifying the least expensive locally available foods in sufficient quantities to meet a population’s nutritional needs. Results have been widely disseminated in peer-reviewed journal articles and dialogue with international agencies and national governments, beginning with work in Ghana and Tanzania ( AJAE 2018) and practical use to guide agricultural, food and nutrition policy is being scaled up globally through UN system agencies, country governments and the World Bank (https://www.worldbank.org/FoodPricesforNutrition). For international comparisons, our core discovery is illustrated by the figures below from the first round of global monitoring data for 2017, and the updated results for 2021: Results shown above reveal some variance in the Cost of a Healthy Diet but no correlation with national income, while actual food spending is generally higher at higher income levels. For the world’s lowest-income people, resources available for food and hence actual food spending are lower than even the least expensive locally available healthy diets, while higher-income people may not obtain healthy diets even though they spend more on food. Use of the lowest-cost diet as a benchmark allows national governments and international organizations to distinguish the causes of poor nutrition as either lack of access due to high prices or low incomes, or displacement of low-cost healthy diets by other foods due to factors such as time use or tastes and aspirations. This diagnostic metric helps identify locally-appropriate interventions to improve access through innovations and investment in food supply to lower cost, safety nets and livelihoods to raise income, or other actions to alter food choice from among the affordable options, and thereby achieve universal access and use of healthy diets worldwide. Behind this work Funding, context and origins Ongoing work on Food Prices for Nutrition is funded by the Gates Foundation and UK International Development under a project entitled Supporting National Actions to Improve Affordability of Healthy Diets (INV-053346), a $1.2 million project from Oct. 2025 though Dec. 2029 for Tufts University analytical support to FAO and others, accompanying a larger Gates Foundation grant to FAO for technical assistance to country governments. This occurs alongside two companion projects at Tufts, one to help private enterprises improve food supplies through a consortium on Data Analytics for Food Markets in Africa, and another to help local researchers inform national governments through the Agriculture, Nutrition and Health Science-Policy Platform. The use of retail prices to monitor food access and improve affordability of healthy diets was driven by the Food Prices for Nutrition project (INV-016158), a five-year, $3.8 million effort from Oct. 2020 through Aug. 2025 funded by the Gates Foundation and UK International Development. That project was implemented by Tufts University in partnership with the World Bank, the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), and diverse collaborators in Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Ghana, Malawi, Nigeria, Tanzania and other countries around the world. Its purpose was to refine and scale up the use of methods developed through two previous projects at Tufts University: first Indicators of Affordability for Nutritious Diets in Africa (IANDA, 2015-17), a £250,000 research grant funded by UKAid through the IMMANA project, followed by Changing Access to Nutritious Diets in Africa and South Asia (CANDASA, 2017-20), an $800,000 research grant funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for work in India, Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Ghana, Malawi, Tanzania and elsewhere. Project-related activities at Tufts University have also been funded by contracts from the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations for background papers to the SOFI 2020, 2021 and 2022 reports and related policy analyses, and received additional support from USAID through the Feed the Future Innovation Lab for Nutrition and the Feed the Future Policy Research Consortium , for work in Malawi and elsewhere. The project’s activities at IFPRI build on a project funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation entitled Advancing Research on Nutrition and Agriculture (ARENA), and the World Bank’s Food Prices for Nutrition work is part of its Development Data Group building on the International Comparison Program (ICP). Team and collaborators Supporting National Actions to Improve the Affordability of Healthy Diets (2025-2029) William Masters, Principal Investigator Alex Knueppel, Project Manager Shaelin Cullen, Project Coordinator Policy researcher TBD Food Prices for Nutrition (2020-2024) Tufts University William Masters, Principal Investigator Anna Herforth, Co-Director Alex Knueppel, Project Manager Rachel Gilbert, Graduate researcher Leah Costlow, Graduate researcher Oluwagbenga Sadik, Program Officer Kristina Sokourenko, Student Consultant Collaborators fund Elena Martinez, Postdoctoral Fellow (IMMANA) Jessica Wallingford, PhD candidate (Canadian SSHRC Fellow) The World Bank Marko Rissanen, Senior Statistician Yan Bai, Economist Edie Purdie, Data communications consultant International Food Policy Research Institute Derek Headey , Senior Research Fellow Kristi Mahrt, Senior Research Analyst Kalyani Raghunathan, Research Fellow Timothy Sulser, Senior Research Fellow Other collaborators Tufts University: faculty members Steven Block, Jennifer Coates, Elena Naumova, Shibani Ghosh, Patrick Webb; former students & staff Robel Alemu, Alissa Ebel, Sarah Laves, Hallie Perlick, Kate Schneider, Yurika Ueda, Aishwarya Venkat, Natalie Volin, Maya Zamek World Bank: Maurice Nsabimana, Inyoung Song, Rui Costa, Elizabeth Purdie IFPRI : Harold Alderman , Kalle Hirvonen, Will Martin Funders NEWS AND CONVERSATION For the latest news, follow #FoodPricesForNutrition on LinkedIn . Some material is also on X and Bluesky , and briefly also on Mastodon .
