DaVinci Resolve is the world’s only solution that combines editing, color correction, visual effects, motion graphics and audio post production all in one software tool! Its elegant, modern interface is fast to learn and easy for new users, yet powerful for professionals. DaVinci Resolve lets you work faster and at a higher quality because you don’t have to learn multiple apps or switch software for different tasks. That means you can work with camera original quality images throughout the entire process. It’s like having your own post production studio in a single app! Best of all, by learning DaVinci Resolve, you’re learning how to use the exact same tools used by Hollywood professionals! High end professionals working on feature films and television shows use DaVinci Resolve more than any other solution! That’s because it’s known for incredible quality and creative tools that are light years beyond the competition. You get DaVinci’s Emmy™ award winning image technology with 32-bit float processing, patented YRGB color science and a massive wide gamut color space for the latest HDR workflows. You also get the legendary quality of Fairlight audio processing for the best sound in the industry! With DaVinci Resolve, you get the same tools professional colorists, editors, VFX artists and sound engineers use every day to finish your favorite films and streaming television shows! DaVinci Resolve 20 introduces more than 100 new features including powerful AI tools designed to assist you with all stages of your workflow. Use AI IntelliScript to create timelines based on a text script, AI Animated Subtitles to animate words as they are spoken, and AI Multicam SmartSwitch to assemble a timeline with camera angles based on speaker detection. The cut and edit pages introduce a dedicated keyframe editor and voiceover palettes, and AI Audio Assistant analyzes your audio and intelligently creates a professional audio mix. In Fusion, explore advanced multi layer compositing workflows. The Color Warper now includes Chroma Warp, plus Magic Mask and Depth Map have huge updates. Learn More DaVinci Resolve is the only solution that lets you grow and build your own multi user post production studio! The project libraries are built for real time local and remote collaboration. While the Blackmagic Cloud website lets you host and access your projects and media from anywhere in the world. Now you can collaborate with editors, colorists, visual effects artists, and sound engineers all working together at the same time. Best of all, you no longer have to import and export files, translate projects, lose work, or conform and manage changes. DaVinci Resolve is the only application in the world that lets everyone work together in parallel on the same project and at the same time! Learn More Update Notifications Clips and Bin Locking Multi User Timelines Share Cloud Folders Blackmagic Cloud DaVinci Resolve is divided into "pages," each of which gives you a dedicated workspace and tools for a specific task. Editing is done on the cut and edit pages, visual effects and motion graphics on the Fusion page, color correction on the color page, audio on the Fairlight page, and media organization and output on the media and deliver pages. All it takes is a single click to switch between tasks! Media Cut Edit Fusion Color Fairlight Deliver The edit page is the world’s most advanced professional non-linear editor. The familiar track layout, dual monitor design and traditional workflow makes it easy for new users to learn while still being powerful enough for professional editors. It’s perfect for larger projects such as feature films, television shows, streaming, commercials, documentaries and more. The edit page features drag and drop editing, context sensitive automatic trimming tools, fully customizable keyboard shortcuts so you can work faster, and a library full of hundreds of titles, transitions, and effects that you can add and animate. You also get complete media management, organization and timeline management tools. Learn More The cut page is perfect for projects with tight deadlines that you have to turn around quickly. The cut page has a streamlined interface that’s fast to learn and designed for speed. Features such as source tape, dual timelines, fast review, and smart editing tools help you work faster than ever. The sync bin and source overwrite tools let you quickly edit multicam programs. It’s also great for documentaries and now live broadcast editing and replay. Multi Source is the fastest way to see your cameras and edit to the timeline while the cameras are still recording! Everything on the cut page is action based so every click does something. That means you’ll spend more time editing and less time hunting for commands. Learn More The DaVinci Resolve color page is Hollywood’s most advanced color corrector and has been used to color and finish more high end feature films and television shows than any other system! It’s also approachable with features designed to make it easier for new users to get great results while they continue to learn the advanced tools. For example, primary control sliders will be familiar to anyone who’s used image editing software, making it easy to adjust contrast, temperature, midtone detail, saturation and more. The color page has an incredible range of primary and secondary color grading features including PowerWindows™, qualifiers, tracking, advanced HDR grading tools and more! Learn More The Fusion page lets you create cinematic visual effects and broadcast quality motion graphics right inside of DaVinci Resolve! Fusion features a node based workflow that makes it faster and easier to create sophisticated effects and animations than you could ever create using a layer based approach. You get hundreds of 2D and 3D tools for visual effects and motion graphics, along with advanced animation curve and keyframe editors that allow you to create incredibly organic and realistic animations. Fusion has everything from point, planar and 3D camera tracking to rotoscope and keying tools for creating photorealistic composites, stunning animated titles, 3D particle systems and more! Learn More The Fairlight page features hundreds of pro tools for audio post production. It’s like having a professional digital audio workstation (DAW) built into your editing and color system! The Fairlight Audio Core lets you work with up to 2,000 tracks at a time with realtime effects, EQ, and dynamics processing! You get sample accurate editing tools, advanced ADR and Foley, and Fairlight FX such as reverb, de-esser, and hum remover, plus AI effects like Voice Isolation and Music Remixer and more. IntelliTrack AI tracking lets you use video to track the Fairlight audio panner and you can mix and master stereo, 5.1, 7.1, and even immersive 3D audio formats including 5th order ambisonics! Learn More The media and delivery pages have everything you need to import, manage and deliver final projects. The media page is a dedicated full screen workspace that lets you prepare footage, sync clips, organize media into bins and add metadata before you start editing. Use the clone palette to ensure every bit of data in the camera media cards is copied during backup. During edit or grading, stream video outputs to a remote client monitor via DeckLink. You can output and upload files to YouTube, Vimeo and TikTok from any page using the quick export tool. The deliver page gives you total control over all encoding options and formats, along with a render queue for exporting multiple jobs! Learn More DaVinci Resolve Studio 20 features over 100 GPU and CPU accelerated Resolve FX such as blurs, light effects, noise, image restoration, lens flair, stylize and more! Version 20 adds even more plugins such as background defocus for portrait shots and film look creator. Film look creator alters color shading, vibrance, hue and the luminance of an image so you can easily apply many film looks. You can even add film grain! There are improvements to the face refinement box and profile handling, additional controls for skin refinements, smoother sub pixel animation and finer control for directional blur. All Resolve FX effects can be applied and animated in the cut, edit, Fusion and color pages! The DaVinci AI Neural Engine uses state of the art deep neural networks and machine learning, along with artificial intelligence to power features such as facial recognition, object detection, smart reframing, speed warp retiming, super scale, auto color and color matching and more! The DaVinci AI Neural Engine is entirely cross platform, using the latest GPU innovations for AI and deep learning to provide unparalleled performance and quality. The DaVinci AI Neural Engine provides simple tools to solve complex, repetitive and time consuming problems. For example, it enables facial recognition to sort and organize clips into bins based on people in the shot, to reframe shots and more. With all the different workflows and systems available, you need a post production solution that’s compatible and open enough to handle anything! DaVinci Resolve can be used with any type of storage ranging from direct attached hard drives to NAS and SAN systems. You can extend DaVinci Resolve with third party Open FX and audio plugins, or add third party title and motion graphics templates. New workflow integration and encoding APIs let developers integrate workflow and asset management systems with DaVinci Resolve. Plus, it works with all major file formats and post production software, making it easy to move files between DaVinci Resolve, Final Cut Pro, Media Composer, and Premiere Pro. DaVinci Resolve keyboards have been designed to edit much faster than a mouse because you can use both hands at the same time! The DaVinci Speed Editor features dedicated edit function keys and a high quality search dial with transport controls. You can use the search dial and source tape buttons with your right hand to locate shots, while simultaneously marking in and out points, performing edits and live trimming. The DaVinci Resolve Replay Editor builds on these controls adding live to air camera selection and slow motion replay with stingers. The DaVinci Resolve Editor Keyboard adds a QWERTY keyboard with color coded shortcut keycaps, designed for editors who spend hours each day editing. Learn More DaVinci Resolve Speed Editor ‑ $475 DaVinci Resolve Replay Editor ‑ $595 DaVinci Resolve Editor Keyboard ‑ $709 DaVinci Resolve color panels let you adjust multiple parameters at once so you can create unique looks that are impossible with a mouse and keyboard. The incredibly small DaVinci Resolve Micro Color Panel is great for new colorists just getting started or anyone that needs a portable panel. It features 3 high quality trackballs, knobs for primary grading controls and buttons for accessing additional tools. The DaVinci Resolve Mini Panel features additional controls and screens for accessing virtually all palettes and tools. For the ultimate control, the DaVinci Resolve Advanced Panel gives high end professional colorists access to every single feature and command mapped to a specific button! Learn More DaVinci Resolve Mini Panel DaVinci Resolve Micro Color Panel DaVinci Resolve Advanced Panel Designed in collaboration with professional sound engineers, Fairlight hardware consoles streamline your workflow, acting as a natural extension of the software. The intuitive, task based design adapts automatically, putting the controls you need right at your fingertips when you need them. That means you'll spend more time being creative and work faster than using just a mouse and keyboard! The Fairlight Desktop Console is a complete mixing console that’s ideal for use in home studios, small suites or on the road. You can also install Fairlight Studio Console components into your own desk or purchase a pre-configured multi bay Fairlight console for dedicated audio suites and scoring stages! Learn More The best creative tools shouldn’t be limited to Hollywood. That’s why there’s a free version of DaVinci Resolve, so you can learn how to use the same tools that professional Hollywood artists use. DaVinci Resolve is designed to inspire creativity so you can focus on doing your best work. Once you learn the software and start using it for more work, you can purchase DaVinci Resolve Studio which adds tons of additional effects, 3D and more. Adding an editor keyboard, color control panel, or audio console lets you work even faster because you can use both hands at the same time, allowing you to be more creative and do things that are impossible with a mouse! DaVinci Resolve is the world’s only all in one solution for editing, color, VFX, motion graphics and audio! The free version works with virtually all 8‑bit video formats at up to 60fps in resolutions as high as Ultra HD 3840 x 2160. The free version includes multi-user collaboration and HDR grading! Includes everything in the free version plus the DaVinci AI Neural Engine, dozens of additional Resolve FX, temporal and AI spatial noise reduction, text based editing, magic mask, film grain, optical blur and more. It also supports 10-bit video up to 120 frames per second and resolutions beyond 4K. Free $295 $475 $595 $709 $605 $2,505 $31,089 $3,445 $5,055 $24,195 $32,995 $43,995 $53,895 $435 $435 $4,595 $2,815 $5,115 $1,495 $9,455 $10,555 $12,095 $14,295 $299 $415 $725 $835 $939 $259 $545 $275 $205 $469 $309 $219 $1,249 $2,615
