The best digital marketing agency should, most of all, understand your business to its core, and its specific needs, priorities, and gaps. Every business is unique, and so is every digital marketing strategy. A good agency should be able to identify the best ways to meet your business goals and craft a plan with clear, measurable objectives — and, of course, show results. These are my biggest criteria for choosing the best digital marketing agencies for this guide. I looked at the absolute best of the best, all-around digital marketing agencies with a wide range of services including (but not limited to) search engine optimization (SEO), content marketing, social media, digital ads, and more. Straight North : Overall best digital marketing agency for building domain and topic authority through content optimization WebFX : Best for data-driven PPC advertising with precise audience targeting SmartSites : Best for improving conversions through website optimization Avalaunch Media : Best for improving customer retention rates through targeted email marketing strategies KlientBoost : Best for driving leads and conversions through content marketing services Hibu : Best reputation-building agency for small businesses Lyfe Marketing: Best for maintaining audience engagement and brand relevance on social media First things first: What can you expect from a digital marketing agency? Digital marketing covers a wide umbrella, and, like I said, the best agencies include most, if not all, of them. But some of the most essential digital marketing services for small businesses, and even bigger, mid- and enterprise-level operations, are SEO, content marketing, social media, and reputation management. You should be able to expect a mix of these inbound strategies from a digital marketing agency, as well as outbound strategies like email marketing and digital advertising on Google, social media, and other digital platforms. SEO: This includes all organic search engine marketing strategies like improving your website functionality, building backlinks, and planning and executing SEO content strategies. It also involves auditing existing, legacy content or identifying emerging keyword trends to align with your products and services. Content marketing: This involves planning and publishing blog content on your website to solidify your brand credibility and or position as a thought leadership hub. It can also involve developing a multichannel content strategy for lead capturing and nurturing. Reputation management: This encompasses various strategies, including managing reviews and listings, monitoring your online brand sentiment, crafting and sending press releases, and applying for any relevant awards to boost your brand reputation. Email marketing: Aside from planning, creating, and sending email marketing campaigns to engage audiences and build customer loyalty, this also involves reactivating dormant audiences and setting up personalized drip email campaigns. Social media: This includes planning and scheduling content, but also building engaged communities and creating a loyal fanbase around your brand, and reaching new audiences. Digital advertising: The two most common platforms are Google and social media, but platforms like streaming services (e.g., Hulu, Spotify, etc.) and ecommerce platforms like Shopify are also offering new ways to reach audiences. Agencies can also strategize where to allocate your ad budget to bring the highest returns. Digital marketing agencies also generally operate on a month-to-month basis, although some also allow longer contracts depending on your objectives. Upon signing your contract, you can expect an onboarding call with your agency to discuss your objectives and KPIs and strategize a plan, and monthly or bi-weekly meetings to report progress. Reporting measures vary with each agency, but most will have their own dashboards to show your analytics. The best digital marketing agencies: An overview On and off-page SEO Social media marketing Digital advertising Approximate starting cost My expert score ✓ X ✓ $1,500 4.41 ✓ ✓ ✓ $650 4.38 ✓ ✓ ✓ $750 4.32 ✓ ✓ ✓ $50,000 4.16 ✓ X ✓ $10,000 3.90 On-page only ✓ ✓ $3,000 3.78 X ✓ ✓ $650 3.60 If B2B content marketing services are what you’re after, TechnologyAdvice offers custom, expert B2B content for decision-makers in IT, cybersecurity, AI, and more, written by tech professionals for tech professionals. With an audience of over 100 million in the business world, some of the biggest tech brands we’ve brought results for include Cisco, Gartner, and Microsoft. “TechnologyAdvice helps us capture demand from IT, HR, and finance professionals at key in-market accounts.” — Alex Schutte, Sr. Director of Demand Gen at Paycor Straight North: Overall best digital marketing agency for building domain and topic authority through content optimization Overall Score 4.41/5 Inbound marketing 3.25/5 Outbound marketing 3/5 Pricing 4/5 Client support 4/5 Expert score 5/5 Pros Provides a fully custom marketing strategy for your business Full digital marketing team assigned to your business Tailored digital marketing strategies for increasing MQLs, SQLs, and online revenue Cons No outbound marketing services other than paid ads Expertise revolves around inbound marketing more than outbound marketing (no social media or email marketing, etc.) Doesn’t always provide updates unless you request them, even with an assigned team WebFX: Best for data-driven PPC advertising with precise audience targeting Overall Score 4.38/5 Inbound marketing 3/5 Outbound marketing 4/5 Pricing 3/5 Client support 2.5/5 Expert score 5/5 Pros Data-driven approach to strategies, ideal for digital ads RevenueCloudFX analytics dashboard tracks campaign leads and ROI in real time Does ad retargeting, geofencing, and landing page optimization for Google, Bing, and social media 28-year digital marketing track record Cons Quality of services depends on the people assigned to you Handles many other clients, services may not be unique to your business SmartSites: Best for improving conversions through website optimization Overall Score 4.32/5 Inbound marketing 3.5/5 Outbound marketing 4.5/5 Pricing 3/5 Client support 1.5/5 Expert score 3.75/5 Pros Technical and on-page website optimization to improve conversions Monitors your website every week for quality assurance Team of expert website designers to build your website Experienced with many CMS platforms: WordPress, Magento, Shopify, and more Cons No assigned team for your business, only an account manager Only does Facebook and Google PPC ads Project timelines aren’t always clear, so set clear deadlines for deliverables Avalaunch Media: Best for improving customer retention rates through targeted email marketing strategies Overall Score 4.16/5 Inbound marketing 3.5/5 Outbound marketing 3.5/5 Pricing 3/5 Client support 2.5/5 Expert score 4.06/5 Pros Designs custom-branded graphics for your email and other campaigns Boutique agency that fully researches your business and audience Plenty of experience growing small and medium-sized businesses Cons Doesn’t combine email with SMS marketing Email marketing services don’t include list-building Quality of content and creative output depends on the person assigned Klientboost: Best for driving leads and conversions through content marketing services Overall Score 3.90/5 Inbound marketing 2.5/5 Outbound marketing 4/5 Pricing 3/5 Client support 2.5/5 Expert score 3.75/5 Pros Wide range of content: blogs, whitepapers, case studies, etc. Tests content before launching and continually optimizes for better results All content is automatically SEO-optimized Assigns a team to focus on your business Cons Content doesn’t always accurately capture brand voice Tends to change team members frequently, according to former clients, leading to inconsistent output Content output can be generic without clear guidance and instructions Hibu: Best reputation-building agency for small businesses Overall Score 3.78/5 Inbound marketing 3.25/5 Outbound marketing 3/5 Pricing 4/5 Client support 2.5/5 Expert score 3.13/5 Pros Specializes in managing online reputations through reviews and listings Dashboard for monitoring comments and brand sentiment Ensures all online information about your business is consistent and up-to-date Cons Doesn’t always transfer website domains to clients after contracts expire Mainly for building brand reputation and visibility, not leads or sales Lyfe Marketing: Best for maintaining audience engagement and brand relevance through social media Overall Score 3.60/5 Inbound marketing 1.5/5 Outbound marketing 4/5 Pricing 3.5/5 Client support 2.5/5 Expert score 3.75/5 Pros Comprehensive social media services, from strategy to analysis Provides comprehensive reports after your campaign Monitors and responds to comments to keep up engagement Cons Doesn’t build profiles from scratch — only optimizes existing profiles Plans have a set number of posts per month No custom plans — social media ads are a separate plan after organic content How do you choose the right digital marketing agency? Four things to consider I rounded up my top picks for the best digital marketing agencies, but the best one for your business still ultimately comes down to your priorities. Keep in mind things like your specific revenue goals and KPIs, the specific areas of digital marketing you want to focus on, the audience you want to reach, or the problem in your current strategy you want to solve. These will help you find the best agency for your business. Specific goals and KPIs: Different goals require different digital marketing strategies. If your objective is to increase leads, an agency specializing in content marketing and PPC advertising might be your best match. If it’s to build brand awareness, it’ll be one specializing in brand-building and reputation management. Digital marketing strategies: Similarly, if you have specific digital marketing strategies you want to explore, also keep those in mind, as some agencies have expertise in certain areas over others. For instance, KlientBoost’s main expertise is content marketing. Problems you want to solve: When you’re speaking with different agencies, outline the specific marketing problems you want to solve, and ask for their best suggestions on how to solve them. Different agencies might propose different solutions, and you can evaluate which one feels the most right for your business. The audience you want to reach: Finally, one of digital marketing’s biggest advantages is the ability to target audiences precisely. If you have an audience of a specific demographic or interest you want to target, mention that to the agencies you’re speaking with and see if they can propose a solution that fits your objectives, timelines, and budget. How I evaluated the best digital marketing agencies I’ve been researching and writing about marketing agencies for three years now, and I’ve come across a good number of them. For this guide, I compiled the best for each specific essential area of modern digital marketing: building an online presence, brand reputation, social media, email marketing, and so on. I also evaluated them against a scoring criteria on their inbound and outbound marketing capabilities, pricing, customer support, and my own expert score. Inbound marketing: 30% Inbound marketing is central to any digital marketing strategy in 2025. This involves website-building, SEO (both content and technical), reputation management via listings, reviews, and comments, social media marketing, link-building, and branding services. All these help you build a solid online presence and credibility with wider audiences. Outbound marketing: 30% Of course, outbound marketing services count just as much as the inbound services. These mostly involve email marketing and digital ads, both on Google and social media, as well as on other platforms like streaming services or ecommerce platforms like Shopify. I also evaluated the quality of their digital ads services, and whether or not they included landing page optimization and ad retargeting to recapture former customers. Plans and pricing: 10% Each marketing agency has its own pricing structure, so my pricing evaluation mostly involves the comprehensiveness and transparency of their plans: whether they offered comprehensive digital marketing services and a tailored plan to each business, and if they showed clear pricing upfront on the website. Customer support: 10% Good support and communication are the foundations of any good agency-client partnership. I gave extra scores to companies that assigned a dedicated team to each business, provided regular reports or meetings, as well as round-the-clock support via live chat, phone, and email. My expert score: 20% My expert score is my personal evaluation of these agencies and how they stack up against other digital marketing agencies. I evaluated each company on the quality of their overall services, whether they conduct audience research prior to forming their strategies, their overall years in business, and their customer rating on Clutch.co. Frequently asked questions (FAQs) Some of the best digital marketing companies in 2025 are Straight North for branding and SEO, WebFX for PPC advertising, SmartSites for website optimization, and Avalaunch Media for email marketing. Other good digital marketing agencies are KlientBoost, Hibu, and Lyfe Marketing. Most of these agencies offer custom solutions tailored to your business needs, and all have proven case studies for increasing traffic, leads, visibility, and sales. Yes, a digital marketing agency can be worth the investment if you need expertise in a certain digital marketing area, for example, PPC ads or website design. Some agencies specialize in certain areas of marketing and have proven to bring positive results. Hiring a digital marketing agency can also be a good option if you need results in a specific time period or to fill in gaps in your marketing team. They’re also a good idea if you have an ongoing marketing strategy that needs fixing, say if your website isn’t converting leads or your social media posts aren’t getting engagement. Most digital marketing agencies usually start at $1,000 a month for a specific service like SEO or PPC ads, or above $5,000 a month for combined services with multiple strategies. For example, Straight North’s SEO services start at $1,500 a month, while Hibu typically provides custom solutions with prices between $3,000 and $9,000 a month. Other alternatives are area-specific agencies like Lyfe Marketing, which specializes in social media and has plans from $650 a month, or hiring a freelancer from Fiverr Pro, which can start at just $100 per project.
