As every professional knows, event planning is an intricate process with many moving parts. Producing a successful in-person event comes down to more than dazzling invitations, a stand-out caterer, or the perfect venue. It goes without saying that the bigger and more high-profile the event, the more challenging it will be to plan. From drafting an event plan to using cutting-edge software to simplify tasks, here’s an overview of everything you need to know about event planning. What is an event plan? An event plan is a formal document that outlines everything important about your event. At a minimum, your plan should include the event’s: Theme Goals Location and date Budget Target audience/guest list Timeline/schedule Marketing plan Revenue generation plan (if it’s a for-profit event) Team member responsibilities ‍ We also recommend including an event safety plan. For exclusive or large-scale events, make sure the event budget covers the cost of hiring a security team. When assigning responsibilities, designate at least one team member who can liaise with law enforcement or parking authorities if needed. ‍ Read about: How to plan an elegant gala dinner How to plan an event Event planners must have an eye for detail. Planning and producing a successful event is a delicate juggling act, and success depends on how well you can manage many moving parts at once. Write a detailed checklist To stay on track, we recommend creating a checklist that covers everything your team needs to do before, during, and after the event. If the thought of outlining an entire checklist sounds overwhelming, don’t worry: our expert team has written a comprehensive event planning checklist to help you get started. Leave no detail behind, even if they might seem obvious. That includes checking whether your venue will have enough parking spaces and restrooms to accommodate your guests. Be particular about your venue Book the right venue before making any other major decisions. Your venue’s location, size, layout, amenities, and other considerations will influence many of the details that follow. Whether you’re staging an outdoor event or a grand ballroom affair, here are the questions you should think through when comparing venues: What facilities and audiovisual specifications does it offer? Does it require you to use a preferred or in-house caterer? Does it provide in-house staff, or can you bring your own? How many hours are allotted for set-up and breakdown, and is there a curfew? Are there any regulations that impact event production (i.e., access, out-of-bounds areas, setup restrictions)? If you’re planning an event in Southern California, check out our curated list of top Los Angeles event venues for inspiration and location ideas. Make it memorable Don’t be afraid to think outside the box. The more original your event, the more memorable it will be. A combination of analog and digital experiences can be transformative for product launches and other types of events. They encourage active participation while tapping into your audience’s emotions. Setting the stage for success starts with asking the right pre-event survey questions to better understand guest needs and expectations. Business engagements — such as nonprofit fundraisers or networking events — might seem more limiting, but still present opportunities for creativity. Interactive activities and team-building exercises are among the best ways to make corporate events more engaging. Finally, get creative: design original centerpieces or vibrant floral arrangements, send invitations that stand out, and use table linens, place settings, and escort cards or place cards to make your tables sing. You might like: The 7 secrets of successful red carpet events Event planning tools Even top event planners can’t do it alone. The right event planning tools will make it easier than ever to plan and manage your events. Mobile apps for payments ‍Mobile payment apps are a must for fundraisers. Consider tools like Square and Zettle, which accept payments and make it easy for guests to donate or pay for auction items on the spot. zkipster zkipster’s premium event planning software makes everything easier. It’s become the go-to tool for event planners in the luxury, fashion, art, entertainment, diplomatic, and corporate spaces. Here’s a glimpse of how you can use zkipster to streamline the planning, production, management, and analysis of your next event: Create custom invitations that will entice people to RSVP Assemble your guest list Manage guest communications Manage event registration and check-in Track analytics Analyze real-time metrics and ROI ‍ Since 2009, this powerful software has been used in more than 100 countries around the world, powering around 30,000 events every year. Additional event planning resources to bookmark today. To make your planning process more efficient and impactful, explore the key benefits of event management software and how it can support seamless coordination from start to finish, such as the zkipster seating chart app. Visual design tools Use visual design tools to design an event that resembles no other. Canva is an online design tool with a free version you can use to create, or just find inspiration for, all types of stationery and printed materials for your event. Technology that helps you reach specific goals Technology can help you reach your event goals in all sorts of interesting ways. If you’re planning a sustainable event, waste and CO 2 usage calculators can estimate the event’s environmental impact so you can meet your sustainability goals. ‍ Related: Your guide to event attendance tracking for offline events Creating your team and assigning roles Everyone on your team should work with the singular goal of elevating the event experience for the client and their guests. Hire the right people for each of these key roles: Event manager: manages all aspects of the event planning process and all the event professionals on the team Event marketing specialist for PR: handles promotions and signage with stakeholders and sponsors Event coordinator: coordinates the minute details before the event and on-site on the day of Creative director: designs the entire look, concept, and vibe of the event Technical director: handles lighting and audiovisual systems Production manager: manages the budget and coordinates with team members to keep spending on track Venue manager: coordinates logistics with the venue and vendor Event designer: transforms the look of the venue to match the creative director’s vision Hospitality manager: provides customer service to guests and oversees caterers, wait staff, and bartenders Security manager: a must-have for large events, this person guarantees the safety of every guest, host, organizer, and staff member ‍ Remember that when you’re planning an event, your client’s role is the most important of all. Ensure that you and your team members never lose sight of their wants, needs, and goals. Expert tips for better event management Managing an event is no easy feat, but you can learn a lot from the experts. Here are three event management tips used by professionals who regularly pull off massive events for high-profile clients. Tip 1: Manage your guests Event management begins with managing your guests — and their expectations. Use event management software like zkipster to assemble guest lists, communicate with guests, manage RSVPs, and confirm meal choices and dietary restrictions. Tip 2: Avoid last-minute changes Sudden changes are stressful and event planners will experience several other emotions. Avoid needing to make last-minute adjustments by confirming (and double confirming) the details for everything in the weeks and days leading up to the event, including staff, entertainment, vendors, sponsors, and speakers. Tip 3: Have your day-of plan ready Create a day-of plan to keep you and your team on schedule when the big day arrives. Include a venue walkthrough, a technology check (speakers, lights, AV equipment), and a pre-event team meeting to delegate any final tasks. It’s also wise to check in with your client, if for no other reason than to assure them that everything is running smoothly on your end. To make event day more manageable, we have outlined some pre-event planning steps to take before your guests arrive. After the event As all great event planners know, your work isn’t done when the event is over — there’s still more to do. Schedule a post-event debrief with your team to review what went right, what could have gone better, and any takeaways that could help you plan future events. This is also the time to gather feedback from guests. Reach out to ask what they liked about the event and if there was anything you could have improved. If your event had a social media hashtag, review it to see what your guests, sponsors, and clients chose to share. Behind every successful event planner is a powerful set of tools. With event management software like zkipster, you can streamline the event planning process, better manage events, and plan more successful events in the future. ‍ Header image: Central Park Conservancy's 34th Annual Frederick Law Olmsted Awards Luncheon , Central Park, NYC. Photo by Max Lakner / BFA.com ⓒ BFA 2025 ‍
