The end of the year is a sartorial double-edged sword—but fall and winter’s biggest fashion trends are here to help break us out of a cold-weather rut. The downside of the season, of course, is that our outfits amount to mostly shoes and outerwear. The good news, though, is that smart layering and statement coats can make for some incredible style moments. The fall-winter 2025 runways drove this point home: At labels like Prada, Ralph Lauren, and Chloé, the right jacket, dress, or pants elevated the act of staying warm into an art. So, what will we be wearing as the year comes to a close? The color palette is earthy; the vibe is moneyed and nostalgic; the details are everything. But there’s so much to dive into. These are the major fall-winter fashion trends our editors are shopping now, featuring everything from minimalist boots to new-school track pants. Glamour ’s fall-winter trend edit 1. Eclectic minimalism Minimalism is anything but boring these days. Led by labels like The Row and designers like Phoebe Philo, the look is morphing into something weirder and more memorable than the T-shirt-and-jeans uniform the term might suggest. The key to acing this new look, as exemplified by brands such as Prada and The Garment, is employing subtle tweaks—oddball layering, eye-catching asymmetry, luxe materials, interesting proportions—that turn basics into showstoppers. You’d be shocked by how much a funnel-neck jacket, sculptural coat, or cool-girl necklace can do to elevate your wardrobe. 2. Town and country chic Earthy plaid, full skirts, luxuriously thick outerwear—so many hallmarks of the rural English aesthetic appeared on fall and winter’s standout runways. At Ralph Lauren, Isabel Marant, and Patou, models in heritage checks and plaids could have been right at home in the Cotswolds. And luxury met performance at Louis Vuitton and Victoria Beckham, where the outerwear looked sturdy enough to withstand country chores. Getting the same look is easier than ever right now, no country house necessary; try throwing a cable-knit sweater over a plaid skirt or combining a checked jacket with wide corduroy pants. 3. Rockstar furs While faux fur popped up in far too many of this season’s collections to recount, our very favorite examples used the material to evoke ’70s bohemia (with none of the ethical concerns of wearing the real stuff). The rockstar looms large this season; see the Bianca Jagger–worthy ensembles at Chloé and Valentino, plus the fur-draped sirens at Miu Miu and Simone Rocha. You could go more straightforward with your outerwear, but what’s the fun in that? Channel your inner Jim Morrison or Janis Joplin in these slightly outré finds, all of which pair beautifully with pieces that have just as much stage presence, like flared jeans, leather skirts, and sequin dresses. 4. Preppy academia While “collegiate style” might bring the easygoing undergraduate to mind, many of this season’s best collections took inspiration from a different muse: the grad student. Sweater vests, striped shirts, wool slacks, turtleneck sweaters, leather brogues—so many pieces would be right at home on a TA. These are not looks for lounging on the quad; they’re for hitting the books, grading papers, and sipping coffee at odd hours. Channel your inner academic by mixing preppy staples (dress pants, pleated skirts) with cheeky twists on the classics (long argyle socks, layered sweaters). Suddenly, dressing for the office doesn’t seem so bad. 5. Elevated athleisure Athleisure gets a bad rap. While staples like sweatpants, athletic jackets, and track pants can skew a little too casual, clever styling tricks (courtesy of the likes of Auralee and Miu Miu this season) prove that your sportiest pieces can also be your most elegant. Consider traditional leggings tired—it’s all about relaxed bottoms now, styled alongside funnel-neck jackets and sweatshirts with enough personality to stand out from the crowd. (Celeb-approved stirrup and capri leggings also fit into this camp, by the way.) Adopt the pieces below and you’ll look less like a gym rat and more like a fashion insider, whether you’re hitting Pilates or grabbing Saturday-afternoon drinks.
