Top fashion trends for 2025: A look into the Future With a combination of predicted data from Heuritech for Spring/Summer 2025, insights from a fashion analyst, and inspiration drawn from recent runway shows, we can identify the top 10 forecasted key trends expected to make waves in 2025. Top Trends of 2025 Boho Chic In Suede Shades of Yellow Hot Pants Aquatic Influences Cute Sportswear The Feminine Polo Shirt Animal Print Thong Sandals Strapless dress All about Asymmetry Heuritech's approach to trend forecasting At Heuritech, our trend forecasting methodology harnesses the power of advanced artificial intelligence and data analytics. We utilize state-of-the-art machine learning algorithms to scrutinize extensive visual data from social media platforms. By detecting patterns and shifts in consumer behavior, we deliver real-time insights into emerging trends. Our approach melds the quantitative precision of data science with the qualitative insights of fashion industry experts, ensuring forecasts that are both accurate and actionable. This comprehensive methodology empowers brands to stay ahead of market trends and tailor their strategies to current consumer preferences, fostering innovation and growth in the fashion industry. 2. Yellow Yellow Yellow The color trend that never fails to radiate—Yellow! From soft, creamy vanilla yellow to the bold richness of saffron, this vibrant hue is set to make waves in Spring/Summer 2025. Vanilla yellow trend is projected to rise by +11%, while saffron yellow will see a +6% increase from April to June, compared to previous years. 3. Hot Pants as The New Mini Skirt Hot pants have emerged as the new alternative to the mini skirt, styled either with bare legs or paired with stockings. On the runway for this season it was featured in fabrics like cotton, knit, sequin, denim, and leather. The shape can be styled in various ways and is either worn with party tops or cozy knitted cardigans. This fashion style is expected to see a +7% increase in popularity from April to June 2025 compared to previous year. For July to September, the shape is forecasted to have a +14% increase particularly embraced by trendy Gen Z consumers. 4. Aquatic Wonderland We can expect aquatic influences in 2025 that go beyond the classic nautical marine aesthetic, instead the inspiration will take us deep into the world of water and everything that exists within it. Think vibrant tiles from a pool, tropical blues that evoke the soothing depths of the ocean, the caudal fin, the shells of aquatic animals, and mermaid-inspired dresses. For Spring/Summer 2025, we anticipate a trend centered around aquatic influences to evolve. This is indeed a theme for the more edgy, fashion-forward consumer, infused with a touch of fashion extravagance. However, we can also expect to see these influences among mainstream consumers, playing with shades of blue and metallic colors alongside lustrous fabrics. For summer 2025, turquoise is forecasted to increase by +8% compared to the previous summer, while mermaid-inspired elements like sequins and fishtail maxi dresses are expected to grow by +20% and +17%, respectively. 5. Elevated and Cute Sportswear It's not news flash that sports have long been a source of inspiration for the fashion world, but the lines between fitness and style are blurring now more than ever. 6. The Feminine Polo Shirt For some fashion people, Leopard print is less of a trend and more of a timeless staple. But in 2024, it dominated our feeds, splashed across everything from interiors to clothing, enjoying a major resurgence in visibility. As we head into 2025, we can expect a fresh wave of animal prints to roar onto the scene. Animal prints are set to become the season's rising stars, with a projected +92% increase from July to September. During the same time period, Leopard and tiger prints, in particular, will shine and is forecasted to surge by +138% and +16%, respectively. 8. Thong Sandals Flip flops paired with jeans have long been a signature look among the style-savvy in Copenhagen, and this laid-back aesthetic will gain traction across the rest of Europe in 2025. Thong sandals are stepping into the spotlight, and was seen on the runway in various shows as Dior, Burberry and Etro. According to data from Heuritech, the popularity of Thong Sandals is set to soar by an impressive +25% (April-June) During the same period and even more striking is the projected +31% increase in rubber thong sandals, mostly driven by the edgy consumer. 9. Strapless Dress Strapless dresses made a striking comeback on the Spring Summer 2025 runways, blending minimalist charm with bold new textures. Acne Studios showcased a heart-shaped neckline that created an exaggerated silhouette, adding a playful twist to classic black. MM6 Maison Margiela embraced a deconstructed approach, with ruched details giving an edgy twist to the strapless form. At LaQuan Smith, snake-print strapless designs lent a sultry allure, highlighting the trend’s versatile appeal. During Spring 2025 (April-June), strapless dresses will increase with +15% and cater to the edgy and trendy consumer with effortless grace. 10. All about Asymmetry One-leg pants, flowy skirts, and one-shoulder tops are all fantastic examples of how asymmetry can elevate fashion pieces to new heights, making garments feel both fresh and contemporary. The design introduces an interesting, unique cut to more traditional shapes, and in 2025, we can expect to see even more of this trend. In Spring 2025 (April-June), asymmetric neck woven tops are estimated to increase by +6%, with significant adoption mainly among Gen Z and Millennials. During the same period, the asymmetric neck t-shirt is projected to grow by +10%, primarily driven by mainstream consumers, indicating great commercial potential.
