Blockchain is one of the most exciting and disruptive technologies to emerge in the last decade. It is changing not only the way we perceive money and currency but also the internet itself. The only trouble is that most people have no idea what it is, let alone how it works, which is why we have decided to put together this blockchain for dummies guide . Truth be told, most explanations on blockchain are incredibly convoluted and complicated, so we’ll explain how blockchain works in simple terms and avoid using jargon as much as possible. You will learn: So, let’s begin. Before we get into what blockchain actually is, we need to understand why it came to be in the first place. The invention of blockchain is credited to a person or a group of people going by the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto , who introduced a white paper on a decentralized peer-to-peer electronic cash system in 2008. The growing distrust toward failing banks, financial institutions, and the centralized banking system inspired Sakamoto to come up with a system that would be the opposite of that: decentralized, transparent, and secure. Since then, the blockchain market size has been growing constantly. To start off with our blockchain for dummies explanation, let’s imagine a digital ledger , which is essentially a notebook used to capture all financial transactions, such as loans given to friends. What makes this notebook different is that it’s shared and open for access to a lot of people simultaneously. Also, once something is written in the ledger, it can’t be erased or changed. Each page of recorded transactions is like a block, and once it is filled out, it is added to previously completed pages, creating a chain that everyone can access, verify, and, most importantly, trust. Hence the term “blockchain.” This eliminates the need for any central authority, such as banks, because blockchain security is guaranteed by everyone who has access to the ledger and records transactions on it. And that’s pretty much the explanation of blockchain. Also, check out our video that explains the basics of blockchain in just 5 minutes: Let’s break down the blockchain into its basic elements and explain how they work together: No blockchain for dummies is complete without this explanation. Blockchain and cryptocurrencies are inextricably connected: blockchain is the technology that provides the infrastructure for all of them. Here is how it works: As part of our blockchain for dummies guide, we will also look into four main types of blockchain: They are completely open, allowing anybody to join and verify transactions, and read and write to the blockchain. They use either a Proof of Work (PoW) or Proof of Stake consensus mechanism. We will explain both mechanisms in this article. The most well-known examples of public blockchains are Bitcoin and Ethereum. Public blockchain is suitable for a number of uses, including cryptocurrency transactions, decentralized applications (dApps), or just about any application that can benefit from an immutable digital ledger. These implement permissions and centralization to a certain degree, unlike the public ones, which are totally open. In this case, a group or an organization has control over the network and decides who can join in and in what role. The advantages are faster transactions and a higher level of privacy when compared to other types of blockchains. However, these benefits come at the expense of decentralization, to put it in the blockchain for dummies terms. Thanks to the way they operate, they are perfect for uses where a certain degree of privacy is required, such as supply chain management and resource planning within companies and organizations or internal voting systems. These are semi-decentralized and run by a group of organizations rather than a single group or entity. Certain rights, such as the right to read the blockchain, may be available to the public or restricted to blockchain participants. They embody some of the best characteristics of both public and private blockchains. They have a high level of trust that private ones have, but also the blockchain safety and decentralization of public blockchains. Their application ranges from banking and keeping records between different organizations to research projects that implement shared control across multiple different organizations. They represent a middle ground between public and private blockchains, as they blend elements of both. They borrow mechanisms like controlled access and permissions from the private ones, but also have a public, transparent aspect where it is beneficial. Organizations, for example, can communicate using the wider public blockchain and rely on hybrid blockchain to limit or allow who sees what information. Hybrid blockchain applications are pretty diverse, ranging from real estate transactions and voting systems, to supply chain management, as well as any application that requires both privacy and transparency. The blockchain system uses a number of consensus mechanisms in order to function. The two most prominent consensus mechanism types that are mentioned in nearly all blockchain for dummies guides are: ⚠️ Note: Bitcoin blockchain uses a Proof of Work consensus mechanism. Need more answers about blockchain? Check out this section of the blockchain for dummies guide. These cryptographic functions are a crucial element of blockchain, because they ensure that all the data on the blockchain is immutable. Because the data immutable, any alteration to it changes the hash , which is a clear sign of tampering. Also, changing one block invalidates the following ones, and tampering with them all would require significant computing power. These functions also serve as a way of verifying transactions while keeping the data private and are essential for the Proof of Work consensus. Simply put, they are the foundation of blockchain safety. Yes, blockchain is safe, thanks to its robust security features and the way it is built. Because it is decentralized, no single person or entity can control the entire blockchain, which makes tampering or attacks extremely difficult. In addition to decentralization, blockchain is also secure thanks to cryptographic hashing and various consensus mechanisms. The entire system is simultaneously transparent and private, and the data is immutable and safe. Blockchain technology comes with a wide spectrum of benefits when it comes to data security and transaction verification. In addition to transparency, data immutability, and security, blockchain offers speed and efficiency thanks to peer-to-peer transactions without any intermediaries. Also, blockchain enables the tracing of every single transaction that took place on it, which is ideal for asset authentication and fraud prevention. Blockchain is a groundbreaking technology, but it does have a few limitations that prevent it from being adopted more widely: Blockchain has come a long way from its inception as a response to the financial crisis, and it’s only begun to scratch the surface. Apart from providing the underpinnings for all the cryptos out there, blockchain also has the potential for application across various sectors and industries beyond finance. We hope that this blockchain for dummies guide has helped you learn about blockchain and all of its specifics. One thing is for sure: blockchain is definitely here to stay. Not only that, but it looks like it’s set to change multiple aspects of our digital lives, including the way we interact with the internet, thanks to Web3 technology.
