In This Article Renovating your space is an exciting endeavor that breathes new life into your home. However, embarking on a renovation project without a clear understanding of the different renovation phases and timelines can lead to frustration and delays. In this guide, we’ll walk you through the core four renovation phases—planning, design, pre-construction, and construction—and shed light on the typical timelines for each stage. By familiarizing yourself with these renovation phases and timelines, you can better navigate your renovation journey and ensure a smooth and successful project outcome. What are the key factors that influence renovation timelines? What are the different phases of a home renovation and how long do they take? Estimating things like timelines and renovation costs can be tricky because each renovation has its own unique quirks that influence those totals. So, the more you’re able to capture the full picture of your renovation plan, the more accurate your cost and timeline estimates will be. The following are some of the most common factors that impact renovation phases and timelines. Are you simply adding a new coat of paint? Or are you transforming the purpose of an entire room? This one’s pretty straightforward: More complex or extensive renovations that involve things like structural changes and electrical work will take much longer than simpler cosmetic refreshes. You’ll also experience delays if you change the scope of the project while it’s already underway. That’s why careful upfront planning is so crucial to any home renovation project. Like many legal processes, the timeline for obtaining the right permits and scheduling the required building code inspections for your home renovation can be an unpredictable process. Awaiting permits and inspections can significantly stall your project, depending on your local government’s permitting process. As work kicks off, you might uncover hidden issues in your home that are impacting the structural safety. Those will delay the project until they’re resolved properly—and might even require more permits. Unexpected issues might include things like rotting from water damage, black mold, or outdated wiring. Summer tends to be the peak renovation season because of its long hours of daylight and warmer weather. But if you choose to renovate during the summer months, you may experience scheduling delays due to a higher demand for the best contractors in your area. Scheduling your renovation during the off-season in wintertime can help mitigate delays related to the availability of contractors. As mentioned, summer is often considered the ideal season for renovations—but that doesn’t always mean it’s going to be ideal for your unique project. Extreme weather conditions like air pollution, heat waves, and various storms can impact the safety and speed with which construction can continue. That’s especially true for exterior renovations, like roofing or additions. That said, each season has its weather trials, whether it’s hail or hurricanes, so sometimes weather delays are unavoidable factors to strategize how to work around. When you order materials for your project, you’ll need to account for the possibility of extensive shipping timelines. The potential for delayed turnarounds may be more likely when ordering anything customized. Anytime you can procure your materials locally, that’ll help you cut down on time—and money and environmental impact, too! Learn more: The Key Factors That Influence Renovation Timelines There are four overarching phases to every home renovation: planning, design, pre-construction, and construction. To give you a more complete view of your renovation timeline, we’ve broken down those phases into the following 15 more granular renovation phases and timelines. The purpose of this phase: The planning kickoff phase lays the groundwork for your renovation project. Tasks involved in this phase: Find inspiration, outline your goals, and define the project scope. Timeline estimate: 1 to 2 weeks The purpose of this phase: The budgeting and financing phase makes it possible for you to take any further steps toward completing the project. Tasks involved in this phase: Create a budget for all renovation expenses, including contingency savings, and determine how you’ll finance the project (e.g., taking out a loan, dipping into savings). Timeline estimate: 1 to 2 weeks The purpose of this phase: This contractor selection phase is when you identify and assemble the team who’ll bring your renovation vision to life. Tasks involved in this phase: Compare quotes from contractors, and work with a Block Project Planner to get the support you need in making your contractor decision. The hiring process might include a general contractor, designers, or a combination design-build firm. Timeline estimate: 1 to 2 weeks ⏳ Once you choose your general contractor, your timeline should account for the fact that there will likely be some significant lead time between signing a contract and starting the renovation. Current lead time estimates are anywhere from 3 to 4 months. The purpose of this phase: This phase is where your renovation vision takes shape in collaboration with expert architects or interior designers. Tasks involved in this phase: Develop detailed design plans in line with your vision—including architectural drawings if applicable—and finalize the project plan through multiple rounds of feedback and revision. Timeline estimate: 2 to 6 weeks The purpose of this phase: This phase is where you gather all the materials you’ll need to complete your renovation. Tasks involved in this phase: Work with your designers and contractors to finalize selection of all the materials, finishes, and fixtures they’ll need to construct your vision—and place your orders or purchase locally. Timeline estimate: 1 to 3 months The purpose of this phase: This phase sets your construction team up for success by giving them a clear picture of what space they’ll be working with. Tasks involved in this phase: Schedule a walkthrough with your contractor so they can inspect and assess the current conditions of your space. If there are any issues (e.g., with the structural integrity, plumbing, mold), now is the time for them to be addressed and accounted for in your project scope. Timeline estimate: 1 to 2 weeks The purpose of this phase: This phase is when you take any of the steps you’re legally required to complete for your particular renovation. Tasks involved in this phase: Refer to your local laws around home renovation permits and inspections, and follow the given steps to obtain necessary permits and schedule building inspections. Timeline estimate: 2 weeks to 3 months 🧰 It’s essential to spend sufficient time on those first seven phases to avoid potential hiccups later on. The more thoroughly you’re able to plan and effectively communicate with the experts you hire, the more likely you’ll be setting everyone up for success throughout the construction phases. The purpose of this phase: This phase makes way for construction to begin. Tasks involved in this phase: Before your team starts building, now is the time to demolish what’s being replaced, resolve any issues uncovered during inspection (like mold removal), and protect any parts of your home that are not being renovated. Timeline estimate: 1 week 🏡 Where will you stay during your renovation? Before construction breaks ground, it’s wise to sort out where you’ll be living during the construction phase. Is the project contained to a part of your home that you can avoid throughout construction? If not, make sure you’ve budgeted and done all the necessary preparations for staying somewhere else for the duration of the project. Learn more: Get ideas for where to stay during your renovation. The purpose of this phase: This phase is all about establishing a sound structure for your remodel. Tasks involved in this phase: Your contractors make any adjustments to the structural framework of your home renovation site. If this involves altering load-bearing walls or creating entirely new structures, that’ll lengthen the timeline. Timeline estimate: 1 to 8 weeks The purpose of this phase: This phase puts in place a stable infrastructure for a functioning home. Tasks involved in this phase: Work with the relevant licensed subcontractors to make any adjustments or new additions to your home’s electrical, plumbing, or mechanical infrastructure. Timeline estimate: 1 to 3 weeks The purpose of this phase: This phase builds upon the one before it to complete your renovation’s foundation. Tasks involved in this phase: Work with your pros to ensure they properly insulate and drywall the site. Timeline estimate: 1 to 4 weeks ⏱️ Remember: All of these timelines are general estimates. Your actual timeline will depend on a number of factors unique to your circumstances. The purpose of this phase: This phase is for completing the perimeter of your renovation. Tasks involved in this phase: Using the materials you’ve acquired, it’s time for your team to install flooring (including resolving any sub-flooring issues), windows, and doors according to the plan. Timeline estimate: 1 to 2 weeks The purpose of this phase: This phase completes the rest of the space’s installations. Tasks involved in this phase: Your team installs the rest of your chosen materials to bring your vision to life. Timeline estimate: 2 to 4 weeks The purpose of this phase: This phase ties it all together with fresh coats of paint. Tasks involved in this phase: Your team paints floors, ceilings, and trim to plan. Timeline estimate: 1 week The purpose of this phase: This phase finalizes your renovation. Tasks involved in this phase: Oversee any final inspections and site clean up, pay your contractors, and move back in to enjoy your new remodel. Timeline estimate: 1 week Learn more: Emotionally Preparing for Your Home Renovation: Know What to Expect For a successful project, understanding these different renovation phases and timelines is crucial. By allocating sufficient time for planning, design, pre-construction, and construction, you can minimize delays and unexpected setbacks. You don’t have to begin your next renovation project alone—working with Block’s streamlined renovation platform will help ensure a smooth renovation journey from the start. Get a free consultation with Block, match with vetted contractors based on your project needs, and easily compare multiple quotes. We’re here to connect you with the resources you need to map out a timeline that works for you as you renovate your home with confidence. Written by Block Renovation Renovate confidently with Block Easily compare quotes from top quality contractors, and get peace of mind with warranty & price protections. Thousands of homeowners have renovated with Block 4.5 Stars (100+) 4.7 Stars (100+) 4.5 Stars (75+) See what homeowners have built with Block Working with Contractors The Block Way of Renovating: A Complete Homeowner’s Guide 11.24.2025 Working with Contractors Steps to Vetting a General Contractor 11.04.2025 Contractors 50 Most Common Home Renovation Questions (Answered by Experts) 10.28.2025 Process Gutting a Bathroom: What It Entails, Costs & Timeline 07.15.2025 Timelines What's the Best Time of the Year to Renovate? 05.15.2025 Renovate confidently
