Imagine a world where strategy doesn’t just sit on a shelf. It becomes your reality. Our range of project management services are designed to support you through every aspect of building a culture of execution, whether rescuing a derailed project or uniting executives on priorities. Whether you’re just starting your project management journey or taking your PMO to the next level, we have the expertise and the track record to help you get where you want to go. Whether you’re navigating a complex portfolio or managing a high-stakes project, we help you improve project delivery by cutting inefficiencies, prioritizing projects, and executing plans with precision. From setting up to refining your Project Management Office, we’ll guide you step by step to ensure your PMO evolves and drives strategic growth for long-term success. Develop your team's project management skills with our tailored coaching and training programs, each designed to build leadership and foster collaboration for real growth. Struggling to find the right talent for your project? We provide experienced project managers, Scrum Masters, and Business Analysts to complement your team and drive your projects to successful completion. TALK TO US! The best way to get to know us is by talking (to a human!) on our team. Let’s start the conversation… See how we help organizations achieve meaningful, lasting results. Before you choose a partner, it’s crucial to understand their PM philosophy. Otherwise, you risk implementing solutions that may work for some… but not for you. Real Results Without the Noise. At The Persimmon Group, we believe in making project management work for you—not the other way around. Our team is focused on delivering results that drive your business forward. Read our Full Project Management Philosophy Here → Achieve Measurable, Lasting Impact Our Scaffolded Growth™ approach to working with you is designed to help your organization scale project management capabilities incrementally—starting with a foundation and accelerating toward complete project execution mastery. How We Work: Let’s talk about how The Persimmon Group can help you achieve your project management goals. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
