Is weight loss one of your new year's resolutions? If so, you're not alone. Over 40% of adults in the U.S. live with obesity, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. UC Davis Health dietitian and specialist in obesity and weight management, Marie Barone, shares strategies to help you reach your weight goals. 1. Set realistic goals for weight loss It's important to set a realistic weight goal and timeline to achieve it. Your goal weight does not need to match a number on a chart. Ask yourself what weight has felt comfortable for you before. Then ask yourself if you can achieve that target without feeling overly deprived. Weight loss of one to two pounds per week is reasonable for most adults. Find out if weight loss medications can help you lose weight 2. Stick to a meal pattern Find a meal pattern that includes healthy foots that you enjoy eating. Both the Mediterranean diet and DASH meal plan include whole grains, vegetables, fruits, lean protein, and some dairy products. The USDA MyPlate Plan is a free tool that can help you develop a healthy meal plan. Learn about the Mediterranean diet, health benefits and how to get started See the benefits of intermittent fasting, how it works and if it's right for you 3. Manage your food portions Managing portions of all foods allows you to include foods you enjoy in moderation. Here are some tips for managing portions: Use a smaller plate (nine inches or less across). Eat slowly and savor every bite of food. Set aside pre-portioned snacks. Consider splitting an entrée or ordering a la carte at restaurants. Fill up on lower calorie foods like vegetables and choose smaller portions of high-calorie foods. Check out these top 15 healthy foods you should be eating 4. Make time for physical activity Set a goal of at least 150 minutes of aerobic activity per week. Aerobic exercises increase your breathing and heart rate, such as a brisk walk, bike ride or swimming. Not only can aerobic exercises help with weight loss, but they can also help keep your heart and lungs healthy. Add in strength exercises two or more days per week. Strength training can increase your metabolism which helps you burn more calories. Some options for strength training involve exercises using body weight, resistance bands, free weights or weight machines. Explore this simple 8-week exercise plan See how high-intensity workouts can help you get fit fast Find out ways to improve your flexibility for better health 5. Start tracking your behaviors Keeping track of food intake and physical activity is a proven tool for managing weight. Tracking helps to increase awareness of our eating and physical activity behaviors. You can track your food and activity using a mobile app or keep a small notebook with you to write things down. 6. Set yourself up for success Meal planning and food preparation help ensure you have healthy meals and snacks available. You can set yourself up for more activity by wearing comfortable clothes and shoes. This may help you move more throughout the day. Schedule time for exercise on your calendar to ensure you don't have other conflicts. Check out meal planning tips to eat healthier and stay on budget Learn about the paleo diet and why it's not for everyone 7. Participate in a weight management program Weight management programs offer support for your weight management journey. Do some research before signing up for a program to be sure it's a good fit for you. Be wary of programs that promise quick fixes. Long-term weight management is a journey that takes time. Successful programs focus on not only losing weight, but also provide support for keeping the weight off long term. UC Davis Health patients can take a free class called Achieving a Healthy Weight. This class provides more weight loss strategies as well as a fee-based program called Living Light Living Well.
