Some of the 2020 designs are really cool. Quite an informative article. Working for Branex – a web design company in New York, I can easily say that out of these I really like the Superhero Cheesecake design. Website design can be the determining factor in whether a user visiting the site converts to the brand. Many different elements go into good website design, but the most important are user experience, security, and visual presentation. Best Website Designs in 2025 Jeton Phamily Osmo Gufram David Langarica Formless SPINX Digital Baseborn Grab & Go Tore S. Bentsen Critical Danger The Hall Of Zero Limits FlyHyer IBM’s The Harmonic State Superlist Torgerson Design Partners Locomotive – Swab the World Superhero Cheesecake – The Year of Greta RESN- i-Spy Moooi Mammut – Local Adventure Pioneer – Corn. Revolutionized. The Cool Club x FWA Nomadic Tribe 1917: In the Trenches The Octopus: A design blog by IDEO Diana Danieli George Nakashima Woodworkers Bruno-simon Matruecannabis King Alanmenken crypton.trading Active-theory Koox Frans Hals Museum NOWNESS Simply Chocolate Rainforest Guardians Zillow Paper Planes ETQ Woven Magazine Feed Aquest Hellomonday Blacknegative Click the below links to jump to a group of the best website designs that crushed it in the last several years: Best Website Designs from 2025 Best Website Designs from 2024 Best Website Designs from 2023 Best Website Designs from 2022 Best Website Designs from 2021 Best Website Designs from 2020 Best Website Designs from 2019 Best Website Designs from 2018 Best Website Designs from 2017 Best Website Designs from 2016 Best Website Designs from 2015 Best Website Designs from 2011 – 2014 Best SEO-Friendly Website Design Other Cool Website Designs Web Design Patterns to Make Part of Your Website Revamp Website Design Ideas Web Design Factors that Impact Your Website Conversion Rate As you take your team into 2025 to prop up your digital presence, you may be thinking of hiring website design companies for redesigning your website. Top SEO companies also consider redesigning as an important aspect of ranking the existing website. You can also use free WordPress themes if you have less budget to redesign your website. If so, take a moment to check out some of the best website designs along with past winners of the Awwwards and 2025’s nominees. These sites represent the best web design in the world and offer a unique glimpse at what’s working for successful websites all over the world. And this shouldn’t come as a surprise, but these websites don’t use “just-another-theme-based” cms platforms. They specialize in languages such as PHP to develop eye-hooking web designs and their awards shouldn’t shock you. They have enterprise cms solutions that are a class apart from anything else you have ever seen. The Awwwards reveal the best companies that have ticked the website redesign checklist such as creativity, seamless design, and appealing innovation across the internet, with categories ranging from the Best Articles & Interviews to Mobile Excellence and Design. Their Web Design category is one of our favorites to watch. Not only does it offer up-and-coming trends, but sets up benchmarks for website redesign services and website maintenance services. The best web design and digital marketing companies use similar benchmarks to disrupt the status quo. If you as a web designing agency wish to see your company crack the status quo, it’s best to stick to these correlational benchmarks or even surpass them. As you prepare your 2023 strategy and think about the changes you would like to make to your own brand’s website, see if you can draw inspiration from our website designs list along with Awwwards’ past winners and current nominees. Best Website Designs from 2025 Website Design Nominee 2025: Jeton The dynamic realm of digital finance sees Jeton as a revolutionary platform, redefining how people engage with online payments and financial transactions. This cutting-edge service is more than just a digital wallet; it’s a complete ecosystem designed to simplify global commerce while ensuring security and flexibility for its users. At the heart of Jeton.com lies a commitment to delivering a seamless payment experience, empowering both individuals and businesses to thrive in the interconnected world of 2025 and beyond. What sets Jeton.com apart is its versatile, user-centric approach. From international money transfers to secure online purchases, the platform offers a range of features tailored to modern needs. With robust encryption technology and a sleek interface, Jeton.com prioritizes safety and simplicity, making digital transactions effortless for users across the globe. By seamlessly blending functionality with innovation, Jeton.com exemplifies the best websites of 2025, setting a new standard in online platform excellence. Jeton.com serves as a beacon of innovation in an industry that often struggles with outdated systems and processes. By championing transparency, speed, and convenience, it positions itself as more than just a financial service—it’s a partner in unlocking opportunities and driving economic progress. Recognized as one of the best website designs of 2025, Jeton.com not only enhances user experience but also showcases how strategic design can elevate digital solutions. With its sophisticated design and intuitive interface, Jeton.com exemplifies how digital platforms can empower users and transform the way we think about financial transactions in a rapidly changing world. As the digital landscape continues to evolve, Jeton.com leads the way with a design and functionality ethos that solidifies its place among the best websites of 2025 and inspires confidence in a boundary-free future. Website Design Nominee 2025: Phamily The evolving world of healthcare sees Phamily Pharma emerging as a transformative platform dedicated to revolutionizing the pharmaceutical supply chain. Far more than a traditional pharmaceutical company, Phamily Pharma bridges the gap between manufacturers, distributors, and patients through its innovative solutions and human-centered approach. Rooted in reliability and trust, it is reshaping the pharmaceutical industry to better serve the needs of people in 2025 and beyond. What sets Phamily Pharma apart is its unwavering focus on efficiency, accessibility, and innovation. With advanced technology and a user-friendly interface, the platform ensures seamless communication across the supply chain, from sourcing quality pharmaceuticals to ensuring timely deliveries. As a shining example of the best websites of 2025, Phamily Pharma not only excels in function but also embodies thoughtful design that prioritizes the user’s experience. Phamily Pharma redefines how pharmaceuticals are distributed in a world where fast and efficient healthcare is crucial. By prioritizing transparency, fostering collaboration, and ensuring streamlined operations, it addresses key challenges in the healthcare system. Recognized for having one of the best website designs of 2025, the platform pairs cutting-edge technology with aesthetics, offering a modern and intuitive space for all stakeholders in the pharmaceutical supply chain. With its sleek, visually appealing design and robust functionality, Phamily Pharma’s website exemplifies how innovative digital platforms can transform industries. By establishing itself as a leader among the best websites of 2025, Phamily Pharma inspires confidence and demonstrates its commitment to advancing healthcare solutions for a better, healthier future. Website Design Nominee 2025: Osmo The ever-expanding world of online retail sees Osmo.supply emerge as a game-changing platform, redefining the experience of sourcing high-quality, eco-friendly products. This innovative website is not just a store; it’s a curated hub dedicated to sustainability, quality, and simplicity. At its core, Osmo.supply exemplifies a vision of a cleaner, more environmentally conscious future while delivering a seamless shopping experience for customers in 2025 and beyond. What sets Osmo.supply apart is its dedication to blending eco-conscious values with user-centric design. The platform showcases an extensive range of sustainable products that cater to various industries, empowering businesses and individuals to make responsible choices. Designed with precision and aesthetics in mind, Osmo.supply exemplifies the best websites of 2025, creating a visually engaging yet highly functional shopping experience. Osmo.supply serves as more than an online retail platform—it’s a movement that redefines sustainable sourcing. With its intuitive interface and minimalist design, it ranks among the best website designs of 2025, proving that eco-friendliness and innovation can go hand in hand. From its user-friendly navigation to its emphasis on transparency and ethical practices, the website offers a refreshing departure from conventional e-commerce solutions. With its sophisticated design, Osmo.supply reimagines the possibilities of e-commerce in a way that aligns with today’s values and tomorrow’s needs. As the digital landscape evolves, this platform stands as a testament to innovation and purpose, earning its place among the best websites of 2025 and inspiring a new generation of conscious consumers. Website Design Nominee 2025: Gufram Gufram.it emerges as an extraordinary showcase of creativity and bold innovation in the world of avant-garde furniture and contemporary design. More than just a website, Gufram.it embodies the brand’s distinctive approach to design, pushing the boundaries of what furniture can be. At the crossroads of functionality and artistry, Gufram.it captivates users with a digital experience that seamlessly reflects its unique vision, earning it a spot among the best websites in 2025. What sets Gufram.it apart is its ability to communicate the brand’s ethos through its engaging and visually stunning web design. Every detail on the site—vibrant imagery, sleek navigation, and interactive features—showcases Gufram’s iconic furniture pieces while immersing visitors in a world of imagination. Recognized for its playful yet refined style, the website embodies the best website designs of 2025, setting a benchmark for innovation and user engagement. As users navigate Gufram.it, they are invited to explore a realm where creativity knows no limits. From pop-inspired furniture to cutting-edge collaborations, the website transforms browsing into an inspiring journey. It serves as a digital canvas for Gufram’s storytelling, merging product exploration with an experience that bridges art and design. In an era defined by digital transformation, Gufram.it stands out as more than just an online store—it’s a testament to the power of exceptional web design in elevating brand identity. Recognized as one of the best websites of 2025, it exemplifies how a meticulously crafted online presence can amplify a brand’s impact and resonate deeply with a global audience. With its bold design and dynamic interface, Gufram.it doesn’t just display products; it creates an experience. As one of the best websites in 2025, it inspires others to embrace innovation, proving that design excellence isn’t limited to the physical world but thrives equally in the digital realm. Website Design Nominee 2025: David Langarica The ever-evolving world of web development and design sees DavidLangarica.dev stand out as a shining example of innovation and creativity. This portfolio website is more than a showcase; it’s a testament to the art and skill of crafting visually stunning, functional web experiences. As we move into 2025, DavidLangarica.dev exemplifies what it means to be at the forefront of modern web design, earning its place among the best websites in 2025. What makes DavidLangarica.dev extraordinary is its seamless combination of technical expertise and artistic expression. Designed with precision and innovation, the website offers an intuitive navigation experience while highlighting David Langarica’s impressive capabilities as a web developer. Every element—from engaging animations to responsive design—embodies the qualities of the best website designs 2025, ensuring visitors are captivated from the moment they land on the page. Beyond its aesthetic appeal, DavidLangarica.dev sets a benchmark in the world of personal branding. Through thoughtfully curated content and a sophisticated layout, it not only reflects David Langarica’s expertise but also demonstrates the possibilities of blending creativity with functionality. This visionary approach solidifies its position among the best websites of 2025, inspiring a new generation of developers to push the boundaries of what’s possible online. With its sleek visuals, cutting-edge technology, and a focus on delivering an unparalleled user experience, DavidLangarica.dev represents the pinnacle of modern web design. As we look to the future, it serves as a prime example of how innovative design and technical mastery can come together to create something extraordinary—truly one of the best websites in 2025 and a cornerstone of the best website designs of 2025. Best Website Designs from 2024 Website Design Nominee 2024: Formless In the fast-paced digital landscape of today, it’s increasingly difficult to make a mark. In the ever-evolving landscape of website design in 2024, Formless.xyz emerges as a beacon of innovation and community-driven creativity. This digital platform is not just another website; it’s a vibrant community hub where individuals can freely express themselves and shape the future of the internet. At its core, Formless.xyz embodies the vision of founder Brandon Thorpe, who envisages a space where creators are liberated from the constraints of traditional digital paradigms. What sets Formless.xyz apart is its commitment to empowering creators. Through captivating animations and a sleek design, the website invites users to explore a world where imagination knows no bounds. Every aspect of the design speaks to the ethos of freedom and self-expression, inviting visitors to embark on a journey of discovery and creativity. From multimedia storytelling to community building, Formless.xyz offers a platform where individuals can not only share their stories but also retain control over the distribution and ownership of their work. Formless.xyz stands as a refreshing departure in an era where conformity often stifles innovation. It’s more than just a website; it’s a movement—a testament to the power of community and the boundless possibilities of the digital realm. As we navigate the complexities of the digital age, Formless.xyz serves as a guiding light, inspiring us to break free from the confines of convention and embrace the limitless potential of online expression. With its visually striking design and user-friendly interface, Formless’s website, showcased on Awwwards, redefines the digital landscape in 2024. Website Design Nominee 2023: Baseborn In the realm of website design in 2024, Baseborn Studio stands out for its commitment to elegance and simplicity. As an independent digital-first design studio, they specialize in blending branding, motion design, and digital expertise to help clients make their mark in the digital world. Their website reflects this dedication to aesthetic appeal, with a clean black-and-white design complemented by carefully curated stock images. What distinguishes Baseborn Studio is its emphasis on collaboration and engagement throughout the design process. By prioritizing workshops and meaningful conversations with clients, they ensure that each project is a collaborative effort, resulting in solutions that are not only visually appealing but also deeply resonant. With founders Tore and Simon bringing over 20 years of combined experience, Baseborn Studio has earned recognition for its ability to deliver impactful designs that leave a lasting impression. Baseborn Studio’s approach to website design in 2024 exemplifies the importance of blending beauty with functionality. Their website is a testament to their philosophy of creating memorable brand experiences across digital platforms. In an era where standing out in the digital landscape is paramount, Baseborn Studio’s dedication to thoughtful design sets them apart as a notable player in the industry. Baseborn Studio’s website, recognized by Awwwards, exemplifies the pinnacle of modern web design, offering a seamless blend of aesthetics and functionality. Website Design Nominee 2024: Grab & Go In the ever-evolving landscape of website design in 2024, Grab&Go sets a high standard with its visually stunning and user-friendly interface. As a provider of hot meals, beverages, snacks, and convenience products, Grab&Go embodies convenience and accessibility, and its website design reflects these principles effortlessly. One of the standout features of Grab&Go’s website is its captivating use of an orange theme, evoking warmth and energy that aligns perfectly with its offerings. The seamless integration of moving images with scroll motion not only adds a dynamic element to the browsing experience but also effectively showcases the diversity of products available. This combination of vibrant design elements and intuitive functionality ensures that visitors are not only drawn in by the aesthetics but also engaged and encouraged to explore further. Grab&Go’s website exemplifies the importance of design in creating an immersive and memorable online experience. By leveraging modern design techniques and embracing a cohesive visual identity, Grab&Go effectively communicates its brand message while providing users with a seamless journey from discovery to purchase. In an era where online presence plays a crucial role in business success, Grab&Go’s website serves as a prime example of how thoughtful design can elevate the customer experience and drive engagement. At the forefront of contemporary web design, Grab&Go’s visually captivating and user-centric website, sourced from Awwwards, sets a new standard for online convenience and engagement in 2024. Best Website Designs from 2023 Website Design Nominee 2023: Tore S. Bentsen Portfolio They say standing out in today’s digital world is tough. So, how does one make the site of an award-winning website creator stand out? Tore S. Bentsen is the co-founder and interactive designer at BASEBORN. With multiple awards under Tore S. Bentsen’s belt, the website design had to do justice to the impressive portfolio. Tore S. Bentsen has a specialty for combining web flow and branding. The web design of the portfolio had to reflect this. With the help of parallax scrolling, the web design is interactive and engaging, with elements zooming in and out of the screen. The ideal mix of white space and fonts like Rosalinda and Bandeins Sans keeps the viewer hooked on the messaging- Tore S. Bentsen is here to help your site win! Overall, the Tore S. Bentsen portfolio achieves its promotional purpose by capturing attention with bold visuals, engaging fonts, and a seamless user experience. Website Design Nominee 2023: SPINX Digital The second you look at the website of SPINX Digital, it is tough to look away. With its bold and compelling interface and typography, SPINX’s website reveals that it is a company that eats, speaks, and breathes Digital. SPINX Digital is a website design and development company with a team of innovators and digital marketers at the helm. The site brings this very innovation and marketing to light through a cinematic site that relies on bright colors, simple navigation, and a minimal look and feel that draws the visitor in. This is what makes it stand out from all the Website Designs in the market. The bright green on the site both ties into the SPINX Digital logo and grabs attention as soon as you visit the site. The responsive Web Design helps navigate the visitor exactly where they need to be. The use of iconography and crisp text helps communicate essential information without cluttering the available space. All in all, the site of SPINX Digital showcases that the company is good at what they do: creating immersive and engaging handcrafted designs for its clients. Come, dive in! Website Design Nominee 2023: Critical Danger People across the world are aware that there is an increasing number of endangered species. Critical Danger wanted to do something about this. They brought together designers to create one-of-a-kind merchandise that would raise money for charities supporting endangered animals. The web design had to captivate viewers by telling a grave story to make people buy the merchandise. The Critical Danger site utilizes art, illustration, and compelling storytelling to engage viewers. The site primarily aims to educate viewers and evoke action from them. Several elements make this possible. Fact cards jump onto the screen to inform viewers about the endangered species. The bold, red font used throughout the web design highlights the urgency. Juxtaposing text on newspaper clippings that zoom into the screen further highlights the situation’s graveness. Parallax scrolling and captivating visuals help the viewer reach the end of the page- straight to the link to buy the merchandise. Top Site of the Day Website Design 2023: The Hall Of Zero Limits What happens when a legacy brand wants to create a buzz about a much-awaited movie? Sprite created The Hall of Zero Limits to allow the players to meet some people behind Black Panther: Wakanda Forever! The entire experience is 3D guided, traveling through content, an inspiration garden, and a quiz that helps the players discover their gifts. The web design had to create a compelling experience for the players to reach their gifts ultimately. The website design captures the player’s attention through its menu, color palette, and seamless navigation experience. When going through the experience, the 3D navigation places the player in the middle of the hall, with captivating hues of green and black surrounding them. The seamless scrolling and user experience take the player from one part of the experience to another, immersing themselves in the world of Wakanda. A bonus: the player can enjoy the experience on their device of choice, as The Hall of Zero Limits is mobile and desktop optimized. Best Website Designs from 2022 Best Website Design of 2022: FlyHyer You don’t make a strong first impression until you tell what you do. But how to tell you to build a personalized aviation experience? Nothing beats Fly Hyer’s home page on this. The air-suspended airplane on the web page drops in a strong visual cue for those looking to buy a personalized flying experience. As you try to go past the first fold, the illustration of the airplane gets bigger and feels closer to you, giving a strong impression of the airplane in motion. An effective homepage needs a compelling yet non-obtrusive visual story, correct ratio of white spaces, easy-on-the-eyes CTAs, digestible copy, and fantastic navigation to make Fly Hyer the epitome of homepages. The clean design invokes actionable emotions and pursues users to book personalized and shared flights. Best Website Designs from 2021 Best Website Design of 2021: IBM’s The Harmonic State IBM Watson web page design speaks for itself— quite literally. The web design uses auditory elements along with visuals to furnish an immersive user experience. The web page requests you to use the headphones as soon as you land on the page. In case, you didn’t want to put on the headphones or if the headphones were not around your arm’s extension, the interactive background keeps you occupied with the endless universe-like traveling experience. You can feel playing around with the sand art when your mouse navigates on the page. The design has balanced typography and font size between the title and the description. The large title immediately shouts for your attention. You don’t miss the matter of the content despite such an interactive background. Finally, the bold blue CTA takes you to another page that’s highly reciprocal and lets visitors explore three stories. IBM uses visual story-telling in their web design to make complex and dry topics as AI simplified and engaging. Best Website Design of 2021: Superlist Seldom do you land on a webpage and figure out what the brand is about at one glance. Superlist, the productivity app, applies the principle of 5 seconds rule quite brilliantly. Look at the webpage for 5 seconds and you can exactly make what it stands for: productivity for teams and individuals. The tool helps them work on their efficiencies and the way they collaborate. As you land on the homepage, you’ll interact with the workplace accessories such as headphones, pen, journal, and keyboard. Scrolling past the first fold leaves you with an opened journal with a to-the-point copy. The home page manifesto uses plenty of white space to keep you focused on its copy. Its ergonomically designed notification button on the top-right corner gives an immersive feeling of touch and press. Superlist also uses a small arrow icon to help you scroll through the bottom of the page. The fun visual elements continue to dominate the content as you move past the first fold. Best Website Designs from 2020 Best Website Design Nominee 2020: Torgerson Design Partners Ozark, Missouri-based Torgerson Design Partners is a full-service architecture firm with a stunning website. Every section of the site includes familiar features with micro-animations instead of the typical static icons you’re used to seeing on other sites. The clean and minimalist design guides users downward through information about the company, its design philosophy, and a gallery of past projects with quick views of their details as you hover over each one. Top Site of the Day Website Design 2020: Locomotive – Swab the World This website is working to increase awareness of stem cell donation and hopes to diversify the global bank. Every piece of the site draws the eye in – from the unique color combination of umber and teal to the movement to the right of the eye. The moving balls located in just that area force the user to see the site in fullness, boosting visual interest seamlessly. Best Web Design Nominee 2020: Superhero Cheesecake – The Year of Greta When you have a figure as powerful and recognizable as Greta Thunberg, your best option is to use that image in your website campaign. That’s exactly what Superhero Cheesecake has done with “The Year of Greta” from the Netherlands. A passion project with an illustrated timeline of Thunberg’s rise from kid campaigner to global icon. Best Website Design of the Day 2020: RESN – i-Spy A digital take on the I-Spy books beloved by children the world over, this New Zealand campaign for the children’s destination, Hei-Hei, is both imaginative and informative. It captures the spirit of the place while being a fun, game-like entrance into the world of the park. Sites that can make the digital world come alive for children are rare, and this one does it in such a way that adults will want to be involved, too. Other Cool Website Designs Best Website Design Nominee 2020: Moooi Moooi is one of the legendary brands inspiring the world with its breathtaking and innovative interior designs. Like their original, rebellious, and sophisticated techniques, their website is unique, conveying something extra in terms of beauty and uniqueness with stunning pictures. In addition, the website is an unexpected and immersive showcase of its well-curated mix of lighting, furniture, accessories, and other eclectic stuff that outlast everyday interiors. Through an artistic mix of animation and video, the website engages visitors with a sense of exquisiteness and delivers an extra touch of creativity. The positioning of the images and blossoms and other effects immerses the person in an enticing experience. As the nominee of one the finest websites, Moooi pushes accessibility and responsiveness ahead to another level. Best Website Design Nominee 2020: Mammut – Local Adventure Has the lockdown put a limit on your travel? Well, with the situation getting a little relaxed, let the adventure begin with Mammut! Explore your surroundings, share your experience with the community, and win exciting prizes. With mountains calling you to step out during the lockdown, the Mammut is a local adventure challenge community website that encourages you to go out and explore your local outdoors, click quality imagery, and submit photos to win gear. The Landing Page and the outdoor images on the website are beautiful, with a cool touch of a mammoth logo walk/animation as you scroll. The website is incredibly designed with sturdy consideration to each element that may challenge the visitors to go outdoors and tell a compelling story through pictures. Best Website Design Nominee 2020: Pioneer – Corn. Revolutionized. Go. Pioneer’s website, daring and contrasting colors, a beautiful amalgamation of science and real-time 3D assets, and animation shape the design and experience of the site. The organization beautifully captures the scene processes and cutting-edge science of pioneer corn through its website. In addition, it brings awareness to corn seed development right from lab to field and how it will change the concept of farming. From a technical and scientific perspective, the design makes moving down the page feel rhythmic and natural, ensuring the readers read each bold and big caption with copy and click through every CTA on the homepage. In addition, the website gives a more transparent view of each process and performance by the team for easy understanding. Best Website Design of the Day: The Cool Club x FWA FWA collaborated with The Cool Club to let the visitors explore the history of 54 of the coolest websites and digital projects in one place as featured in ‘Web Design, The Evolution of the Digital World 1990-today’. In addition, the website has a kind of limited edition deck of cards display allowing users to play with the cards and see video examples of the actual work each card represents. The team’s interactive design and out-of-the-box thinking tell the story of the respective video and website when clicked on each card. The website is visually appealing and functional, the brainchild of the coolest minds globally, making creative things, websites, or products for the newest citizens of our time. So, are you ready to play the game? Best Website Designs from 2019 Best Website Design of 2019: Nomadic Tribe Another best website designs of 2019, Nomadic Tribe, is one of the most prominent examples of illustration, interaction, and animated storytelling experience with four chapters and a brilliant soundtrack. The meticulously crafted website is an immersive experience for the users to remember. The website is a poetic journey that uses 3D graphics and visual codes to tell a compelling story and rules the comic book world. Maintaining usability, Nomadic Tribe created an out-of-the-box navigation experience and did an exceptional job with beautiful animated transitions that made it the site of the year. Don’t miss to keep the sound on while going through the website. Best Website Design of 2019: 1917: In the Trenches With one of the best war films of all time, Into the Trenches |1917 website is also one of the best immersive 360-degree AR websites. Featuring the trenches and chapters from the film, movie buffs can walk around and explore the sets to full scale within the comfort of their home. Step up into the tracks, watch filmmakers bring the Oscar-winning film to the big screen, and learn the movie’s secrets in 3D. Immersive yourself into the exclusive behind-the-scene sites and explore the mile-long trenches in full-scale Web AR. The site has won several awards, worldwide praise, and pick-up from the press. The users can check out the detailed environment of the war on a real scale combined with a wide variety and in-depth content, resulting in an incredible dwell time of over 3.5 minutes. Best Website Design of 2019: The Octopus: A design blog by IDEO IDEO is one of the leading global design companies committed to creating human-centered designs and positive impact through their work. The Octopus Blog is a testament to their incredible work that has won the Best Business Blog/Website 2019 Webby award. The blog website is designed with a black-and-white theme and different Octopus drawing as its homepage design creates a cohesive theme as you scroll. With a tint of yellow highlighted in the blog titles and the images pulled towards you, the exciting website features make the audience enjoy scrolling, reading through the stories, and having a unique user experience. Best Website Design of 2019: Diana Danieli Diana Danieli is an interior design, construction, and furniture manufacturing brand that helps clients make their dream of an ideal home with exclusive interiors come true. The 2019 Webby Award winner for the best website design – their site displays a black-and-white theme with beautiful imagery of art and architecture with prime distinction and heavy exposure. Their cursor-cascading effect on the website is fantastic, engaging visitors to browse through the variations and photographs. Every picture on the website exhibits the creativity and extensive labor of the artist who owns the website. An excellent new effect of the website is that it has soothing audio and piano music incorporated which immerses the visitors. Best Website Design of 2019: George Nakashima Woodworkers George Nakashima – was a Japanese-American woodworker turned architect who emphasized nature care. The website represents his beautiful work which is legendary for its use of natural forms of the tree. The website is essentially a slideshow of his one-of-a-kind furniture pieces, philosophy, and beautiful forestry and farming images. His profound quotes of nature, trees, or wood mixed up with the website’s light yet elegant theme make it relaxing for the visitors and show that George Nakashima Woodworker’s work is incredible. He recognizes the beauty of trees and the environment. As a result, the website has won the Webby 2019 Honouring the Best of the Internet award. Best Website Design of 2019: Bruno-Simon Bringing you the most creative and interactive website online right now – Bruno Simon! The quirky animation and 3D virtual art on Bruno Simon’s homepage draw the user’s attention immediately upon arrival. The site won the Best Website Design of 2019 award for its awesome playful 3D WebGL art effects. The website is a portfolio of Bruno Simon – a freelance creative developer in Paris. It revolves around a simple car game with a bird’s eye view and is a combination of physics concepts, 3D visual art, standard technologies, and profound attention to detail. The website is an excellent example of how a portfolio site can go above and beyond with interactivity and walk around with an exciting gaming experience. Best Website Design of 2019: Matruecannabis The MA True Cannabis website is one of the best examples for companies in the Retail industry looking to revamp their website. Born from the desire to create a true emotional journey – the site offers unique designs mirroring the unique characteristics of their products and guides users through the Four Worlds. The orange-themed website has a youthful experience that produces a warm and friendly effect for the visitors. A perfect combination of creativity and 3D visuals, animated floating elements, overall, the website offers strong user engagement, and eCommerce functionalities merge into a seamless experience. Best Graphical Website Design: king King is not your ordinary graphical website. They are the leading interactive entertainment company with more than 200 games in its kitty, including the top-rated Candy Crush game. Won the best graphical website design award – their website is not just about colors, or icons, or images, it is more about the mascots they have built, the story behind them, and how users are connected deeply with each game. With the illustrations, motion graphics, audio/ video, and variety of colors, when you scroll down the page, the website is an experience in itself all remaining consistent with the brand. The three-dimensional appearance of each character makes the scrolling fun and the smart use of different ‘call-to-action’ buttons makes the site visit worthwhile. Top Animated Website Designs: Alan Menken Legendary composer – Alan Menken has created some of the most beloved Disney songs capturing the imagination of audiences for over 35 years. His website reflects his musical and poetic love and is one of the most incredible portfolio websites of this time. A compilation of all his famous work along with an exciting biography of the legend, the website weaves a compelling story along with interactive user navigation. The compositions of his famous songs come alive through a clean, minimalist interface and the use of large grids that encourage visitors to revisit their childhood memories and listen to the songs once again. Best Website Designs from 2018 Best Website Design of 2018: Crypton.trading A top-notch website that skillfully brings animation and AI experience to life with spectacular use of CSS and JavaScript. Cryptontrading demonstrates how to present cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin using modern solutions like artificial intelligence. The website helps understand changes in currency’s values as well as identify essential buying and selling opportunities. With its exciting concept and stunning execution, the website challenges our understanding of what is possible with AI on the web. As the visitor scrolls down, the site immerses the users into a very personal and engaging experience with Crypton’s greeting appearing on the home page, “Hello, I am Crypton,” one letter at a time. Best Website Design of 2018: Active-theory Active Theory takes a bold approach with animation to display its portfolio, leveraging a dynamic website, water-effect animation, typography, and high-quality images. Their site serves as a really excellent example of portraying their portfolio differently with brilliant navigation mechanics and visuals mixed with animation. Even if you are not AR and VR fan, the website’s innovative use of graphics and animation can explain a complicated visual experience that is hard to ignore. Their meticulously crafted and experienced team of in-house designers and developers have award-winning performance and attention to detail and are excellent to work with. Best Website Design of 2018: Koox Koox is the first Take Away, based in Central London, in partnership with top chefs of the city. Their website is one of the best designs of 2018 in the field of development and digital experiences. The unique watercolor theme, continuous scroll, and animation of vegetable illustrations, and smooth transition between different sections of the page, make the website outstanding. The designers have worked hard on beautiful illustrations that animate perfectly that enhance the design interface of the website, making it clean, aesthetically, and visually appealing. The captivating website will surely make the visitor order food they have to offer from the top chefs of London. Best Website Design of 2018: the Frans Hals Museum The 2018 Site of the Year Award winner from the Netherlands uses a combination of exhibit photography and digital design elements. This carefully crafted mixture guides visitors to the site through the experience they’ll have during a visit to the museum in person. This is a great combination of information and immersion that also effectively promotes the museum’s Instagram account seamlessly through the homepage. Best Website Designs from 2017 Best Website Design of 2017: NOWNESS One of the coolest crowdsourced video blogs, Nowness, is an award-winning website that creates the finest interactive and unforgettable user experiences. Most of the website’s content comes from independent creatives, which is, by far, one of the most popular ways for publishing more related content. When combined with big thumbnails and subtle typography, the video format creates a matchless website with a gallery of captivating content that breathes innovation, stories that every brand wants to tell, and creative approaches. Thus, just like the name, Nowness is all about a movement for innovative excellence and telling compelling stories in the very moment while celebrating the extraordinary of every day. Best Website Design of 2017: Simply Chocolate Denmark chocolate maker Simply Chocolate created this website with specific pages for every chocolate bar. One of the most delightful visual aspects of this site is the way all the products display consistency in branding as you scroll from one to the next. Every chocolate bar seems to pop off the screen, tempting you to reach out and grab it. Simply Chocolate manages to create an engaging and immersive experience with a relatively minimalist design concept that encourages the user to explore and continue engaging with the site. Best Website Designs from 2016 Best Website Design of 2016: Rainforest.arkivert One of the most immersive non-profit websites of 2016, Rainforest Guardian uses WebGL, immersive 360-panoramic images, unique stories and videos, and diverse content. You can get to know all about the Yanomami tribe of the Amazon, including the villages, natives, and waterways with a 3D effect. The website creates a fantastic user experience with incredible imagery, storytelling, visual designs, and, most of all, an interactive way to get people to connect with their social cause and convert into volunteers to protect nature. The smooth transitions, navigation mechanics, and stunning mountains in 3D capture users’ attention precisely. Best Website Design of 2016: Zillow Zillow is one of the leading real estate and rental marketplaces, providing users with data, inspiration, knowledge, and all the professional help they could get to find the perfect home of their dream. The website was rated high in 2016 for its aesthetically appealing, feature-rich, functional development. The minimalistic approach, flat color, and illustrations of the home pushed usability, accessibility, and seamless navigation on the website and catered to the right information with full details to the right audience. The site serves as a real example of properly executing maps with grid structure while still maintaining excellent visual designs. Best Website Design of 2016: Paper Planes With an invitation to use your mobile device in the right corner, a world spinning front and center, and paper airplanes flying throughout, this website by Active Theory in the U.S. accomplishes a lot by investing in a simple concept – the power of the web and an Android device creates instant connections and is as easy as tossing a paper plane. As the planes seem to come closer and then further around the world, users organically feel like they are part of the story – a clever trick for any website. Best Website Designs from 2015 Best Website Design of 2015: ETQ ETQ is one of the premium footwear brands in Europe’s main capitals. They have created a niche for themselves in the market with their different approach to footwear and signature style shoes. Their website reflects luxury and premium designs with a minimalistic approach to creating an optimal shopping experience for customers. The site is stripped down with big compelling visuals, flat color backgrounds, strong typography, and high-definition images of the products to keep the users’ focus on precisely what they came there to see, i.e., shoes. The site falls in line with the current website design trends, gripping product images, and a slew of subtle details that makes it stand out from the crowd. Best Website Design of 2015: Woven Magazine Featured by Best Website Gallery A good website design has become increasingly important, especially in the world of media and publishing. And Woven Magazine’s website aesthetically appeals to readers with an exciting concept and stunning execution. What captures the viewers are the large images, video thumbnails, and articles that dominate the page, capturing the attention to what matters the most to the company, i.e., information. The online publication creates a clean design, clean typography, easy-to-read content, and an engaging website, free of any distractions like ads or pop-ups, giving the readers the experience of the content itself. With simple maneuvering and continuity throughout, the site’s makers and thinkers celebrate artists and artisans with their stories of fear and triumph, attitude and spirit, risk, and return. Best Website Design of 2015: Feed Feed offers visitors a truly unique and immersive experience. From the moment users click on the Feed Music website, a creative combination of video content and animation creates an incredibly engaging experience. This site is a perfect example of how to create immersive experiences with multimedia. No matter what type of organization you run, video and animation can be perfect assets for engaging users directly and grabbing their attention as soon as they arrive on your homepage. Best Website Designs from 2011 – 2014 Best Website Design of 2014: Aquest The website of AQuest is an implausible example of incredible imagery, story-telling, creative use of multimedia and animation, visual design, and, most of all, sound engineering. They have also harnessed the benefits of infographics for their website. There is a lot to be said about the typography, cursor hover effects, and smart use of motion in this project. The designers have spent a lot of time on interaction and rollovers on the website. Mirroring their outstanding work in Website, Social, Films, 3D, and Labs, AQuest’s dark background theme with a combination of excellent visual effects brings a unique motion style to the website. The feeling of creativity can be perceived in every corner of this production and technology company website. Best Website Design of 2013: Hellomonday Called Hello Monday to make Mondays better – the company is a creative studio that makes digital ideas, experiences, brands, and products come alive. Their creativity is well reflected in their website which offers unique digital experiences, tickles the brain, and pleases the eye. Not only is Hello Monday an exciting concept, but it is also a stunning execution and display of services and insights with a creative blend of animation and visual effects on pixel-rich graphics – overall, the site immerses the user into a very engaging experience. As an atypical site, it contains bold use of fonts, easy user navigation, and several unique usability elements. Best Website Design of 2012: Blacknegative With the ‘Dark Mode’ design trending in 2023, Black Negative is a website that stands out with its smart use of dark background paired with subtle colors, and call-to-action buttons – offering the visitor a smooth visual experience. Visiting Black Negative’s website is a unique experience because of its fascinating design, excellent use of fonts, creative navigation, high-resolution photographs, fantastic video quality, and focus on small details. The technical skill displayed by the designers using rich multimedia content, harmonious flow, and background music site-wide is merely remarkable. Born on September 22, 2011, Slavery Footprint is a non-profit organization that works to engage individuals, groups, and businesses to build awareness against modern-day slavery. Their website pushes accessibility, usability, and responsive design to the next level. When a visitor launches their homepage, the breaking of the chain design catches their eyes, giving a clear message of the company’s mission of freeing modern-day slaves. The site offers an interactive experience to members with a unique pop-up design for each menu. The Slavery Footprint Website is a perfect example for Non-profit organizations on how to keep the members engaged and grab attention to their cause. Best SEO-Friendly Website Design: SPINX Digital This Los Angeles-based website design and digital marketing company have won one of the Best SEO-friendly Website Design awards for its well-strategized content placement, keyword use, and templates. SPINX Digital did an exceptional job of making a visually appealing and progressive website highlighting their services in a simple and easy-to-digest way. Their team has worked a lot on designing a great SEO web architecture based on keyword research and has strived to make their website responsive. Simple, flat, color-based backgrounds accompanied by light-loading times, strong typography, informative content, and pixel-rich graphics helped them to keep the focus on exactly what the user came there to see: Services. This makes them the best choice for your web design in Los Angeles to have a site that stands out and speaks to people. There you have it – A list of some of the most creative websites on the internet today. So if you are looking for a Sitecore agency or a web design agency or even an agency that will give you the best branding services, you will find it all online. You can leverage it to create a visually appealing, relevant, and innovative website for your company and stand out in the industry. Balance Web Design With Powerful Messaging These sites represent some of the most forward-thinking yet functional and intuitive web design options gaining popularity in 2023. They are so forward-looking that you would even be able to find a Drupal development company amongst them. It’s always a good idea to try and glean inspiration from as many sources as possible when you’re looking for ways to revolutionize your own website. These sites are just a few to continue watching in 2023 and are perfect examples of blending clever business and tasteful aesthetic design. If you’re trying to strike out in a new direction with a bold new website design concept, take a moment to look through our best website designs list along with Awwwards’ past winners and current nominees for inspiration. Hiring top creative agencies for you is all the more reason why you need to go through each design diligently. Why? Because that’s how you choose the most relevant agency for your niche. The goal of your website redesign should be to come up with a renewed and refurbished site that speaks to your customers, and your customers only, in a way your best customer service executive would speak to them. Personally. This is where we hope the list above will act as your guiding force. It is our very own customer service executive for you. So you can find the best Branding Agencies available in the market today. Web Design Patterns to Make Part of Your Website Revamp Web design patterns help designers map the website while creating it, resulting in a smoother customer experience by providing the right elements at the correct touchpoints. When looking for a design partner, you must equip yourself with essential knowledge about web design patterns. It helps you know what patterns are available, sparks inputs, and enables you to work collaboratively with the design agency. Read ahead to learn about website design patterns: Wizard- This pattern of website designs helps the user reach their goal on your site faster. It is enabled by simplifying and breaking down the process, wherein the user must complete the previous step before advancing. This is made possible with simple navigation and clear language. Infinite Scroll- In this website design, the content on the site keeps loading as the user scrolls to the bottom of the window or the page they are on. This pattern allows the user to explore the page, keeping their interaction with your content high. Breadcrumbs- In this navigation form, users can understand their location on the website. A navigation bar with horizontal text links allows users to jump across pages. Grid Layout- As one of the most famous website design patterns, the grid divides the page into columns with equal width and space between them. The number of columns can be decided beforehand, with page elements determined based on these boundaries. Hamburger Button- This pattern of website designs helps de-clutter the website page by compactly presenting the navigation. The user is led from one page to another through three lines horizontally stacked at the top of the page. Pull-to-Refresh- When users want to refresh a page on their mobile, they need to pull the page downwards with their finger and release it. As one of the most convenient elements of website designs, this pattern should indicate when the page must be refreshed through icons or text. Shopping Cart- This website design pattern has seen widespread adoption with the rise and advent of eCommerce worldwide. As part of this pattern, your customers can add items to a cart for a final purchase at a later point. Users should be allowed to add and delete items before their last transaction goes through. Drag and Drop Uploads- This pattern of website designs increases the user’s convenience by allowing them to upload required files from their devices directly. Essential parts of getting this right are making the process of dropping files easier, letting the user know when the file has been uploaded, and providing a search button. Modal Window- Modal windows help attract attention to a single element on the page. The window appears in front of the content, not allowing you to interact with the other content. It generally only disappears on completing the task or dismissing the window. One-Finger Navigation- This is a holistic element of website design that considers that users will be holding their devices with one hand. Elements are placed within reach of the user, far away from the top of the page. Website Design Ideas In early 2020, the world flipped upside down with the widespread corona pandemic. Businesses, be it in any industry vertical, was forced to pivot and adapt new remote working methodologies. In addition, remote work culture changed the way companies communicated with their customers and acquired new business. With the world drastically switching to a new mode of business ‘Online Business websites have business crucial for existence and compete in the tight-knit market. To help you crush the competition and accentuate your business, we bring you website design ideas to push your status quo on the web. Be its usability, content, ideas to increase traffic, interactivity, responsiveness, sound design, or value? Of course, your website has to be a masterpiece in your respective industry to make you stand out. The below pointers, when combined with diligence, time, patience, and a great deal of inspiration, will help you get the website. Be Interactive Your website is the face of your organization, do not make it boring make it interactive. Interactive websites increase user engagement leading to enhanced experience. It helps lead visitors to the information that they are searching for. With numerous ways to interact with users, designers can pick what is best for their design. Design your page to have animations that can tell your story. Incorporate tools like social media buttons, Google Maps, and calculators. These tools help the visitor in performing the desired action. Engage with visitors by conducting polls, and quizzes and asking for feedback or ratings. Last but not least, don’t forget to consider UX tools to bring your ideas into reality and apply design principles to represent the strategies. Mobile Experience Consumers have been consistently increasing the use of mobile devices for their daily needs. A great experience on mobile devices is the start of the user experience journey. A user should be able to perform all the actions on the mobile device that a desktop website offers. A few elements like faster loading times, intuitive and easy navigation, search options, and calm colors will help in enhancing the mobile user experience. Visual Elements Brands are not created but built on trust, beliefs, and vision. Knowing your story is a part of building your brand awareness. Visitors want to know your journey and the story that separates you above from the crowd. And using visual elements is an excellent way of telling a story. Web designers are using photographs, videos, audio, and text to create an engaging brand. It helps consumers to relate with brands, fostering long-term relationships with your users. Use Photographs Interactive websites are great, but they are not built in a day or on a shoestring budget. It’s understood that not every business has an expensive budget or luxurious timelines for creating websites, but that should not stop companies from creating awesome websites. Designers are using stunning photographs to engage users. Make sure to use relevant, high-quality images. Rescale and optimize them for your use. If used the right image, it can be worth a thousand words. Pay attention to Call-To-Actions CTA or call-to-action buttons help users perform an intended action. Like subscribing to a newsletter, buying a product, filling out a form, or reading more. CTA is a vital button that encourages the visitor to take action making it imperative to handle CTA with care. Make sure it is visible, correctly placed, and does what it says. It takes effort to design an efficient CTA, and it is worth it. Easy Navigation There has been a study that shows 94% of users expect the website to be easily navigated. When building a new website or restoring a current site, designers should keep navigation their top priority. Navigation toolbars and menus should be kept simple, and visible, and have accurate names, to create an intuitive experience. In the end, make sure there are not many navigation links that will confuse the consumer with what to click and where to go. Social Media It is inevitable to have a social media plan in your growth strategy. Integrating social media into your website should be treated as a logical step and not an optional activity. Social media helps increase brand influence and awareness. It also improves engagement with your business and helps shape a better presence on social media. Social media also helps gain insights into consumer behavior and their needs, which in turn can help your conversions or sales. Web Design Factors that Impact Your Website Conversion Rate The conversion rate can be calculated by dividing the number of visitors who have performed the desired action by the total number of visitors. Conversion rate optimization impacts the company’s overall revenue as it results in the customer carrying out the desired action on your site. When working on the website design for your company, you need to keep certain elements that improve the conversion rate in mind. Learning about these elements will help you co-create a site more efficiently with the website design agency of your choice. Read ahead to learn more: Images: Visuals are an essential part of website design, impacting the quality of the content on your site. High-quality images keep your viewers on the page for longer, making them more likely to engage with your content and product. Typography: Typography plays a navigational role in website design. If you want the visitor to comment, click or read through more posts, typography plays a significant part by drawing the viewer’s attention to the right places. Whitespace: When used correctly, whitespace can increase the viewer’s focus on your site. Using this element of website design the right way can bring attention to the text, images, and icons while reducing noise and clutter on the page. Color: Color plays an essential role in web design as it evokes certain emotions in the viewer. Based on the feeling you want your viewer to experience, the right mix of colors needs to be at the correct places on the site. Mobile Friendliness: In today’s day and age, it is essential to have a mobile-friendly site, as most customers are browsing sites from their phones. Your site should be mobile-friendly, with seamless navigation, resized content, and a fast load time. CTAs: CTAs are the element of website design that convert people from visitors to customers. Simple, direct, urgent, well-placed, and user-friendly CTAs help lead the viewer toward the action you want them to take on your site. Social Proof: Customers look for social proof before they purchase a product on the web. Positive reviews make customers more likely to buy a product as it positively impacts your reputation by adding credibility to your brand. A/B Testing: If you want your website design to be effective, you must conduct A/B testing to see which headline, CTA, and layout work best for your customers. Heatmaps help visualize the data and analyze what parts of the site are clicked the most and least. Load Time: With multiple options available today, getting the load time right can help your brand. The site should take approximately 2-3 seconds to load so that customers do not jump to another site out of frustration. Hyperlink: Hyperlinking is essential to the customer’s experience on your site by improving navigation. It links one part of the site to another and can be used to direct your customer toward the desired landing or purchase pages. Icons: In a world where people are always on the go, they want to consume scannable content. Icons help achieve precisely this. Icons provide customers with the desired information quickly, resulting in more conversions. Frequently Ask Question 1] What type of websites would attract the most visitors? The internet has a wide variety of websites under broad categories trying to accomplish different things. In addition, visitors have over 2 billion websites with other content out there to discover. If you start from square one or try to revamp your website or build your website, it can be intimidating to pick the correct type of website design and category. Here is the rundown on 8 of the most popular types of websites on the web that will give you inspiration on which website to make: 1) eCommerce Website If you are into a services or products company, an eCommerce website is one of the most popular websites. It allows you to sell items directly to the customers instead of monetizing content or generating business via ads or content. It is a platform to buy and sell goods with payment integration and a shopping cart, precisely like your brick-and-mortar store just over the internet. 2) Personal Blog/Vlog Are you into sharing stories or poetry via content? Or are you an influencer or a celebrity? You would probably need a personal blog website! On-trend, these days, these types of websites are handled by a single person with a focus on a specific niche. You can create a personal blog for anything related to travel, beauty, fashion, food, parenting, self-improvement, health and wellness, and more. You can start a personal blog pretty much on anything and use it as your diary to share your thoughts with the mass. 3) Business Website If you own a business, you probably need a website to promote it. With people moving to the internet for everything, having a business website is very crucial in the digital age. If you are not on the internet today, you could lose critical business to your competitors, as there are high chances they already have one website. 4) Brochure/Catalogue Website A more straightforward business website, brochure/catalog website helps visitors view your products easily but with less information. But if you have the budget, you should always opt for a traditional business website that is more robust and SEO-friendly. But if the online website is not a significant driver for your business and you need an online presence, this website can be beneficial. 5) Portfolio Website Next on the list is the portfolio website used to showcase your creations, products, or services virtually in the same way as a physical portfolio. This can help your customers go through your work, understand your talent or abilities, or can also improve your chances of securing a job if the website is your portfolio. A must-have for freelancers or creative persons looking for work. Do you choreograph dance? Upload your dance reels or video choreography samples. 6) Entertainment/News Website Are you looking for some websites to pass the time during a lockdown? Well, you might undoubtedly have come across several entertainment/news/media websites everywhere across the web. Blurred by minor difference – Media/News websites have detailed stories/news covering current events. In contrast, entertainment websites cover gossip, humor, fun pieces, quizzes, and other content which can spark your interest or giggle. 7) Non-profit NGO Website As the name suggests, these websites are popular for Non-profit/NGO organizations. Websites can help them reach the masses and put their objective in front of them transparently. This is also the best way to find funding, build support, spread awareness, devote to the cause, and carry out the mission successfully. Empower, Educate, and Enrich your audience with a motivational website and its content. 8) Video Streaming/ Photo Sharing Website Last on our list is the widely popular video streaming or photo-sharing websites like Netflix, Prime Video, YouTube, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, and more. With a recent surge in these types of websites over the last decade, you can quickly gain so much traffic, bandwidth streaming, and broad reach with each back-end maintenance. 2] What are the current trends in the best website designs? The only thing that is constant in these unprecedented times is having a business with remote workplace culture. To keep this business running, you need a functional and interactive website that can get you more traffic and good business. And for a good website, you need to follow the upcoming website design trends. Here we have listed the top 6 trends for you to follow for a great website. 1) Voice Search Consumers are consistently using voice search rather than typing in the queries. With the growing popularity of voice search make sure your website has naturally flowing keywords. Voice search fetches featured snippets. To optimize feature snippets make sure to have a summary of the web page in it. 2) Dark Mode Designers have started including dark mode options. Dark Mode has several benefits to its name. It not only saves battery but also causes less strain to the eyes as compared to brighter screens. The dark mode is used in both mobile apps and desktop websites. It also adds a stylish touch to the web design. 3) Use of Bots According to a study over 50% of users have interacted with chatbots. These are becoming an integral part of websites. The use of chatbot marketing is not new but chatbot technology is growing by leaps and bounds. Their functionality is improving and so is their application. Chatbots have moved on from simple Q&A bots to conversational chatbots. 4) Abstract Shapes Abstract shapes are simple lines, squares, and circles. When used on a vast web canvas it can create stunning web designs. Web designers have started using abstract shapes as an alternative to traditional photography or images. Couple up abstract shapes with vibrant colors and the result can be mesmerizing. 5) Parallax Scrolling Multiple elements on the webpage that move at varying speeds and create an illusion of depth are called Parallax scrolling animation. The difference in background and foreground elements does the trick. These web animations are complex, but they create an immersive and surreal user experience. Designers can use the parallax effect to create focus on vital website elements. 6) Calm Colors Traditional colors and bright screens cause eye strain as consumers use devices for longer times. To move away from the monotonous dark and white modes, designers are using softer color palettes. Soft colors not only create a calm effect but also helps the user focus on the website and enhance their interaction with the website. Some of the 2020 designs are really cool. Quite an informative article. Working for Branex – a web design company in New York, I can easily say that out of these I really like the Superhero Cheesecake design. Website design can be the determining factor in whether a user visiting the site converts to the brand. Many different elements go into good website design, but the most important are user experience, security, and visual presentation. Best Website Designs in 2025 Jeton Phamily Osmo Gufram David Langarica Formless SPINX Digital Baseborn Grab & Go Tore S. Bentsen Critical Danger The Hall Of Zero Limits FlyHyer IBM’s The Harmonic State Superlist Torgerson Design Partners Locomotive – Swab the World Superhero Cheesecake – The Year of Greta RESN- i-Spy Moooi Mammut – Local Adventure Pioneer – Corn. Revolutionized. The Cool Club x FWA Nomadic Tribe 1917: In the Trenches The Octopus: A design blog by IDEO Diana Danieli George Nakashima Woodworkers Bruno-simon Matruecannabis King Alanmenken crypton.trading Active-theory Koox Frans Hals Museum NOWNESS Simply Chocolate Rainforest Guardians Zillow Paper Planes ETQ Woven Magazine Feed Aquest Hellomonday Blacknegative Click the below links to jump to a group of the best website designs that crushed it in the last several years: Best Website Designs from 2025 Best Website Designs from 2024 Best Website Designs from 2023 Best Website Designs from 2022 Best Website Designs from 2021 Best Website Designs from 2020 Best Website Designs from 2019 Best Website Designs from 2018 Best Website Designs from 2017 Best Website Designs from 2016 Best Website Designs from 2015 Best Website Designs from 2011 – 2014 Best SEO-Friendly Website Design Other Cool Website Designs Web Design Patterns to Make Part of Your Website Revamp Website Design Ideas Web Design Factors that Impact Your Website Conversion Rate As you take your team into 2025 to prop up your digital presence, you may be thinking of hiring website design companies for redesigning your website. Top SEO companies also consider redesigning as an important aspect of ranking the existing website. You can also use free WordPress themes if you have less budget to redesign your website. If so, take a moment to check out some of the best website designs along with past winners of the Awwwards and 2025’s nominees. These sites represent the best web design in the world and offer a unique glimpse at what’s working for successful websites all over the world. And this shouldn’t come as a surprise, but these websites don’t use “just-another-theme-based” cms platforms. They specialize in languages such as PHP to develop eye-hooking web designs and their awards shouldn’t shock you. They have enterprise cms solutions that are a class apart from anything else you have ever seen. The Awwwards reveal the best companies that have ticked the website redesign checklist such as creativity, seamless design, and appealing innovation across the internet, with categories ranging from the Best Articles & Interviews to Mobile Excellence and Design. Their Web Design category is one of our favorites to watch. Not only does it offer up-and-coming trends, but sets up benchmarks for website redesign services and website maintenance services. The best web design and digital marketing companies use similar benchmarks to disrupt the status quo. If you as a web designing agency wish to see your company crack the status quo, it’s best to stick to these correlational benchmarks or even surpass them. As you prepare your 2023 strategy and think about the changes you would like to make to your own brand’s website, see if you can draw inspiration from our website designs list along with Awwwards’ past winners and current nominees. Best Website Designs from 2025 Website Design Nominee 2025: Jeton The dynamic realm of digital finance sees Jeton as a revolutionary platform, redefining how people engage with online payments and financial transactions. This cutting-edge service is more than just a digital wallet; it’s a complete ecosystem designed to simplify global commerce while ensuring security and flexibility for its users. At the heart of Jeton.com lies a commitment to delivering a seamless payment experience, empowering both individuals and businesses to thrive in the interconnected world of 2025 and beyond. What sets Jeton.com apart is its versatile, user-centric approach. From international money transfers to secure online purchases, the platform offers a range of features tailored to modern needs. With robust encryption technology and a sleek interface, Jeton.com prioritizes safety and simplicity, making digital transactions effortless for users across the globe. By seamlessly blending functionality with innovation, Jeton.com exemplifies the best websites of 2025, setting a new standard in online platform excellence. Jeton.com serves as a beacon of innovation in an industry that often struggles with outdated systems and processes. By championing transparency, speed, and convenience, it positions itself as more than just a financial service—it’s a partner in unlocking opportunities and driving economic progress. Recognized as one of the best website designs of 2025, Jeton.com not only enhances user experience but also showcases how strategic design can elevate digital solutions. With its sophisticated design and intuitive interface, Jeton.com exemplifies how digital platforms can empower users and transform the way we think about financial transactions in a rapidly changing world. As the digital landscape continues to evolve, Jeton.com leads the way with a design and functionality ethos that solidifies its place among the best websites of 2025 and inspires confidence in a boundary-free future. Website Design Nominee 2025: Phamily The evolving world of healthcare sees Phamily Pharma emerging as a transformative platform dedicated to revolutionizing the pharmaceutical supply chain. Far more than a traditional pharmaceutical company, Phamily Pharma bridges the gap between manufacturers, distributors, and patients through its innovative solutions and human-centered approach. Rooted in reliability and trust, it is reshaping the pharmaceutical industry to better serve the needs of people in 2025 and beyond. What sets Phamily Pharma apart is its unwavering focus on efficiency, accessibility, and innovation. With advanced technology and a user-friendly interface, the platform ensures seamless communication across the supply chain, from sourcing quality pharmaceuticals to ensuring timely deliveries. As a shining example of the best websites of 2025, Phamily Pharma not only excels in function but also embodies thoughtful design that prioritizes the user’s experience. Phamily Pharma redefines how pharmaceuticals are distributed in a world where fast and efficient healthcare is crucial. By prioritizing transparency, fostering collaboration, and ensuring streamlined operations, it addresses key challenges in the healthcare system. Recognized for having one of the best website designs of 2025, the platform pairs cutting-edge technology with aesthetics, offering a modern and intuitive space for all stakeholders in the pharmaceutical supply chain. With its sleek, visually appealing design and robust functionality, Phamily Pharma’s website exemplifies how innovative digital platforms can transform industries. By establishing itself as a leader among the best websites of 2025, Phamily Pharma inspires confidence and demonstrates its commitment to advancing healthcare solutions for a better, healthier future. Website Design Nominee 2025: Osmo The ever-expanding world of online retail sees Osmo.supply emerge as a game-changing platform, redefining the experience of sourcing high-quality, eco-friendly products. This innovative website is not just a store; it’s a curated hub dedicated to sustainability, quality, and simplicity. At its core, Osmo.supply exemplifies a vision of a cleaner, more environmentally conscious future while delivering a seamless shopping experience for customers in 2025 and beyond. What sets Osmo.supply apart is its dedication to blending eco-conscious values with user-centric design. The platform showcases an extensive range of sustainable products that cater to various industries, empowering businesses and individuals to make responsible choices. Designed with precision and aesthetics in mind, Osmo.supply exemplifies the best websites of 2025, creating a visually engaging yet highly functional shopping experience. Osmo.supply serves as more than an online retail platform—it’s a movement that redefines sustainable sourcing. With its intuitive interface and minimalist design, it ranks among the best website designs of 2025, proving that eco-friendliness and innovation can go hand in hand. From its user-friendly navigation to its emphasis on transparency and ethical practices, the website offers a refreshing departure from conventional e-commerce solutions. With its sophisticated design, Osmo.supply reimagines the possibilities of e-commerce in a way that aligns with today’s values and tomorrow’s needs. As the digital landscape evolves, this platform stands as a testament to innovation and purpose, earning its place among the best websites of 2025 and inspiring a new generation of conscious consumers. Website Design Nominee 2025: Gufram Gufram.it emerges as an extraordinary showcase of creativity and bold innovation in the world of avant-garde furniture and contemporary design. More than just a website, Gufram.it embodies the brand’s distinctive approach to design, pushing the boundaries of what furniture can be. At the crossroads of functionality and artistry, Gufram.it captivates users with a digital experience that seamlessly reflects its unique vision, earning it a spot among the best websites in 2025. What sets Gufram.it apart is its ability to communicate the brand’s ethos through its engaging and visually stunning web design. Every detail on the site—vibrant imagery, sleek navigation, and interactive features—showcases Gufram’s iconic furniture pieces while immersing visitors in a world of imagination. Recognized for its playful yet refined style, the website embodies the best website designs of 2025, setting a benchmark for innovation and user engagement. As users navigate Gufram.it, they are invited to explore a realm where creativity knows no limits. From pop-inspired furniture to cutting-edge collaborations, the website transforms browsing into an inspiring journey. It serves as a digital canvas for Gufram’s storytelling, merging product exploration with an experience that bridges art and design. In an era defined by digital transformation, Gufram.it stands out as more than just an online store—it’s a testament to the power of exceptional web design in elevating brand identity. Recognized as one of the best websites of 2025, it exemplifies how a meticulously crafted online presence can amplify a brand’s impact and resonate deeply with a global audience. With its bold design and dynamic interface, Gufram.it doesn’t just display products; it creates an experience. As one of the best websites in 2025, it inspires others to embrace innovation, proving that design excellence isn’t limited to the physical world but thrives equally in the digital realm. Website Design Nominee 2025: David Langarica The ever-evolving world of web development and design sees DavidLangarica.dev stand out as a shining example of innovation and creativity. This portfolio website is more than a showcase; it’s a testament to the art and skill of crafting visually stunning, functional web experiences. As we move into 2025, DavidLangarica.dev exemplifies what it means to be at the forefront of modern web design, earning its place among the best websites in 2025. What makes DavidLangarica.dev extraordinary is its seamless combination of technical expertise and artistic expression. Designed with precision and innovation, the website offers an intuitive navigation experience while highlighting David Langarica’s impressive capabilities as a web developer. Every element—from engaging animations to responsive design—embodies the qualities of the best website designs 2025, ensuring visitors are captivated from the moment they land on the page. Beyond its aesthetic appeal, DavidLangarica.dev sets a benchmark in the world of personal branding. Through thoughtfully curated content and a sophisticated layout, it not only reflects David Langarica’s expertise but also demonstrates the possibilities of blending creativity with functionality. This visionary approach solidifies its position among the best websites of 2025, inspiring a new generation of developers to push the boundaries of what’s possible online. With its sleek visuals, cutting-edge technology, and a focus on delivering an unparalleled user experience, DavidLangarica.dev represents the pinnacle of modern web design. As we look to the future, it serves as a prime example of how innovative design and technical mastery can come together to create something extraordinary—truly one of the best websites in 2025 and a cornerstone of the best website designs of 2025. Best Website Designs from 2024 Website Design Nominee 2024: Formless In the fast-paced digital landscape of today, it’s increasingly difficult to make a mark. In the ever-evolving landscape of website design in 2024, Formless.xyz emerges as a beacon of innovation and community-driven creativity. This digital platform is not just another website; it’s a vibrant community hub where individuals can freely express themselves and shape the future of the internet. At its core, Formless.xyz embodies the vision of founder Brandon Thorpe, who envisages a space where creators are liberated from the constraints of traditional digital paradigms. What sets Formless.xyz apart is its commitment to empowering creators. Through captivating animations and a sleek design, the website invites users to explore a world where imagination knows no bounds. Every aspect of the design speaks to the ethos of freedom and self-expression, inviting visitors to embark on a journey of discovery and creativity. From multimedia storytelling to community building, Formless.xyz offers a platform where individuals can not only share their stories but also retain control over the distribution and ownership of their work. Formless.xyz stands as a refreshing departure in an era where conformity often stifles innovation. It’s more than just a website; it’s a movement—a testament to the power of community and the boundless possibilities of the digital realm. As we navigate the complexities of the digital age, Formless.xyz serves as a guiding light, inspiring us to break free from the confines of convention and embrace the limitless potential of online expression. With its visually striking design and user-friendly interface, Formless’s website, showcased on Awwwards, redefines the digital landscape in 2024. Website Design Nominee 2023: Baseborn In the realm of website design in 2024, Baseborn Studio stands out for its commitment to elegance and simplicity. As an independent digital-first design studio, they specialize in blending branding, motion design, and digital expertise to help clients make their mark in the digital world. Their website reflects this dedication to aesthetic appeal, with a clean black-and-white design complemented by carefully curated stock images. What distinguishes Baseborn Studio is its emphasis on collaboration and engagement throughout the design process. By prioritizing workshops and meaningful conversations with clients, they ensure that each project is a collaborative effort, resulting in solutions that are not only visually appealing but also deeply resonant. With founders Tore and Simon bringing over 20 years of combined experience, Baseborn Studio has earned recognition for its ability to deliver impactful designs that leave a lasting impression. Baseborn Studio’s approach to website design in 2024 exemplifies the importance of blending beauty with functionality. Their website is a testament to their philosophy of creating memorable brand experiences across digital platforms. In an era where standing out in the digital landscape is paramount, Baseborn Studio’s dedication to thoughtful design sets them apart as a notable player in the industry. Baseborn Studio’s website, recognized by Awwwards, exemplifies the pinnacle of modern web design, offering a seamless blend of aesthetics and functionality. Website Design Nominee 2024: Grab & Go In the ever-evolving landscape of website design in 2024, Grab&Go sets a high standard with its visually stunning and user-friendly interface. As a provider of hot meals, beverages, snacks, and convenience products, Grab&Go embodies convenience and accessibility, and its website design reflects these principles effortlessly. One of the standout features of Grab&Go’s website is its captivating use of an orange theme, evoking warmth and energy that aligns perfectly with its offerings. The seamless integration of moving images with scroll motion not only adds a dynamic element to the browsing experience but also effectively showcases the diversity of products available. This combination of vibrant design elements and intuitive functionality ensures that visitors are not only drawn in by the aesthetics but also engaged and encouraged to explore further. Grab&Go’s website exemplifies the importance of design in creating an immersive and memorable online experience. By leveraging modern design techniques and embracing a cohesive visual identity, Grab&Go effectively communicates its brand message while providing users with a seamless journey from discovery to purchase. In an era where online presence plays a crucial role in business success, Grab&Go’s website serves as a prime example of how thoughtful design can elevate the customer experience and drive engagement. At the forefront of contemporary web design, Grab&Go’s visually captivating and user-centric website, sourced from Awwwards, sets a new standard for online convenience and engagement in 2024. Best Website Designs from 2023 Website Design Nominee 2023: Tore S. Bentsen Portfolio They say standing out in today’s digital world is tough. So, how does one make the site of an award-winning website creator stand out? Tore S. Bentsen is the co-founder and interactive designer at BASEBORN. With multiple awards under Tore S. Bentsen’s belt, the website design had to do justice to the impressive portfolio. Tore S. Bentsen has a specialty for combining web flow and branding. The web design of the portfolio had to reflect this. With the help of parallax scrolling, the web design is interactive and engaging, with elements zooming in and out of the screen. The ideal mix of white space and fonts like Rosalinda and Bandeins Sans keeps the viewer hooked on the messaging- Tore S. Bentsen is here to help your site win! Overall, the Tore S. Bentsen portfolio achieves its promotional purpose by capturing attention with bold visuals, engaging fonts, and a seamless user experience. Website Design Nominee 2023: SPINX Digital The second you look at the website of SPINX Digital, it is tough to look away. With its bold and compelling interface and typography, SPINX’s website reveals that it is a company that eats, speaks, and breathes Digital. SPINX Digital is a website design and development company with a team of innovators and digital marketers at the helm. The site brings this very innovation and marketing to light through a cinematic site that relies on bright colors, simple navigation, and a minimal look and feel that draws the visitor in. This is what makes it stand out from all the Website Designs in the market. The bright green on the site both ties into the SPINX Digital logo and grabs attention as soon as you visit the site. The responsive Web Design helps navigate the visitor exactly where they need to be. The use of iconography and crisp text helps communicate essential information without cluttering the available space. All in all, the site of SPINX Digital showcases that the company is good at what they do: creating immersive and engaging handcrafted designs for its clients. Come, dive in! Website Design Nominee 2023: Critical Danger People across the world are aware that there is an increasing number of endangered species. Critical Danger wanted to do something about this. They brought together designers to create one-of-a-kind merchandise that would raise money for charities supporting endangered animals. The web design had to captivate viewers by telling a grave story to make people buy the merchandise. The Critical Danger site utilizes art, illustration, and compelling storytelling to engage viewers. The site primarily aims to educate viewers and evoke action from them. Several elements make this possible. Fact cards jump onto the screen to inform viewers about the endangered species. The bold, red font used throughout the web design highlights the urgency. Juxtaposing text on newspaper clippings that zoom into the screen further highlights the situation’s graveness. Parallax scrolling and captivating visuals help the viewer reach the end of the page- straight to the link to buy the merchandise. Top Site of the Day Website Design 2023: The Hall Of Zero Limits What happens when a legacy brand wants to create a buzz about a much-awaited movie? Sprite created The Hall of Zero Limits to allow the players to meet some people behind Black Panther: Wakanda Forever! The entire experience is 3D guided, traveling through content, an inspiration garden, and a quiz that helps the players discover their gifts. The web design had to create a compelling experience for the players to reach their gifts ultimately. The website design captures the player’s attention through its menu, color palette, and seamless navigation experience. When going through the experience, the 3D navigation places the player in the middle of the hall, with captivating hues of green and black surrounding them. The seamless scrolling and user experience take the player from one part of the experience to another, immersing themselves in the world of Wakanda. A bonus: the player can enjoy the experience on their device of choice, as The Hall of Zero Limits is mobile and desktop optimized. Best Website Designs from 2022 Best Website Design of 2022: FlyHyer You don’t make a strong first impression until you tell what you do. But how to tell you to build a personalized aviation experience? Nothing beats Fly Hyer’s home page on this. The air-suspended airplane on the web page drops in a strong visual cue for those looking to buy a personalized flying experience. As you try to go past the first fold, the illustration of the airplane gets bigger and feels closer to you, giving a strong impression of the airplane in motion. An effective homepage needs a compelling yet non-obtrusive visual story, correct ratio of white spaces, easy-on-the-eyes CTAs, digestible copy, and fantastic navigation to make Fly Hyer the epitome of homepages. The clean design invokes actionable emotions and pursues users to book personalized and shared flights. Best Website Designs from 2021 Best Website Design of 2021: IBM’s The Harmonic State IBM Watson web page design speaks for itself— quite literally. The web design uses auditory elements along with visuals to furnish an immersive user experience. The web page requests you to use the headphones as soon as you land on the page. In case, you didn’t want to put on the headphones or if the headphones were not around your arm’s extension, the interactive background keeps you occupied with the endless universe-like traveling experience. You can feel playing around with the sand art when your mouse navigates on the page. The design has balanced typography and font size between the title and the description. The large title immediately shouts for your attention. You don’t miss the matter of the content despite such an interactive background. Finally, the bold blue CTA takes you to another page that’s highly reciprocal and lets visitors explore three stories. IBM uses visual story-telling in their web design to make complex and dry topics as AI simplified and engaging. Best Website Design of 2021: Superlist Seldom do you land on a webpage and figure out what the brand is about at one glance. Superlist, the productivity app, applies the principle of 5 seconds rule quite brilliantly. Look at the webpage for 5 seconds and you can exactly make what it stands for: productivity for teams and individuals. The tool helps them work on their efficiencies and the way they collaborate. As you land on the homepage, you’ll interact with the workplace accessories such as headphones, pen, journal, and keyboard. Scrolling past the first fold leaves you with an opened journal with a to-the-point copy. The home page manifesto uses plenty of white space to keep you focused on its copy. Its ergonomically designed notification button on the top-right corner gives an immersive feeling of touch and press. Superlist also uses a small arrow icon to help you scroll through the bottom of the page. The fun visual elements continue to dominate the content as you move past the first fold. Best Website Designs from 2020 Best Website Design Nominee 2020: Torgerson Design Partners Ozark, Missouri-based Torgerson Design Partners is a full-service architecture firm with a stunning website. Every section of the site includes familiar features with micro-animations instead of the typical static icons you’re used to seeing on other sites. The clean and minimalist design guides users downward through information about the company, its design philosophy, and a gallery of past projects with quick views of their details as you hover over each one. Top Site of the Day Website Design 2020: Locomotive – Swab the World This website is working to increase awareness of stem cell donation and hopes to diversify the global bank. Every piece of the site draws the eye in – from the unique color combination of umber and teal to the movement to the right of the eye. The moving balls located in just that area force the user to see the site in fullness, boosting visual interest seamlessly. Best Web Design Nominee 2020: Superhero Cheesecake – The Year of Greta When you have a figure as powerful and recognizable as Greta Thunberg, your best option is to use that image in your website campaign. That’s exactly what Superhero Cheesecake has done with “The Year of Greta” from the Netherlands. A passion project with an illustrated timeline of Thunberg’s rise from kid campaigner to global icon. Best Website Design of the Day 2020: RESN – i-Spy A digital take on the I-Spy books beloved by children the world over, this New Zealand campaign for the children’s destination, Hei-Hei, is both imaginative and informative. It captures the spirit of the place while being a fun, game-like entrance into the world of the park. Sites that can make the digital world come alive for children are rare, and this one does it in such a way that adults will want to be involved, too. Other Cool Website Designs Best Website Design Nominee 2020: Moooi Moooi is one of the legendary brands inspiring the world with its breathtaking and innovative interior designs. Like their original, rebellious, and sophisticated techniques, their website is unique, conveying something extra in terms of beauty and uniqueness with stunning pictures. In addition, the website is an unexpected and immersive showcase of its well-curated mix of lighting, furniture, accessories, and other eclectic stuff that outlast everyday interiors. Through an artistic mix of animation and video, the website engages visitors with a sense of exquisiteness and delivers an extra touch of creativity. The positioning of the images and blossoms and other effects immerses the person in an enticing experience. As the nominee of one the finest websites, Moooi pushes accessibility and responsiveness ahead to another level. Best Website Design Nominee 2020: Mammut – Local Adventure Has the lockdown put a limit on your travel? Well, with the situation getting a little relaxed, let the adventure begin with Mammut! Explore your surroundings, share your experience with the community, and win exciting prizes. With mountains calling you to step out during the lockdown, the Mammut is a local adventure challenge community website that encourages you to go out and explore your local outdoors, click quality imagery, and submit photos to win gear. The Landing Page and the outdoor images on the website are beautiful, with a cool touch of a mammoth logo walk/animation as you scroll. The website is incredibly designed with sturdy consideration to each element that may challenge the visitors to go outdoors and tell a compelling story through pictures. Best Website Design Nominee 2020: Pioneer – Corn. Revolutionized. Go. Pioneer’s website, daring and contrasting colors, a beautiful amalgamation of science and real-time 3D assets, and animation shape the design and experience of the site. The organization beautifully captures the scene processes and cutting-edge science of pioneer corn through its website. In addition, it brings awareness to corn seed development right from lab to field and how it will change the concept of farming. From a technical and scientific perspective, the design makes moving down the page feel rhythmic and natural, ensuring the readers read each bold and big caption with copy and click through every CTA on the homepage. In addition, the website gives a more transparent view of each process and performance by the team for easy understanding. Best Website Design of the Day: The Cool Club x FWA FWA collaborated with The Cool Club to let the visitors explore the history of 54 of the coolest websites and digital projects in one place as featured in ‘Web Design, The Evolution of the Digital World 1990-today’. In addition, the website has a kind of limited edition deck of cards display allowing users to play with the cards and see video examples of the actual work each card represents. The team’s interactive design and out-of-the-box thinking tell the story of the respective video and website when clicked on each card. The website is visually appealing and functional, the brainchild of the coolest minds globally, making creative things, websites, or products for the newest citizens of our time. So, are you ready to play the game? Best Website Designs from 2019 Best Website Design of 2019: Nomadic Tribe Another best website designs of 2019, Nomadic Tribe, is one of the most prominent examples of illustration, interaction, and animated storytelling experience with four chapters and a brilliant soundtrack. The meticulously crafted website is an immersive experience for the users to remember. The website is a poetic journey that uses 3D graphics and visual codes to tell a compelling story and rules the comic book world. Maintaining usability, Nomadic Tribe created an out-of-the-box navigation experience and did an exceptional job with beautiful animated transitions that made it the site of the year. Don’t miss to keep the sound on while going through the website. Best Website Design of 2019: 1917: In the Trenches With one of the best war films of all time, Into the Trenches |1917 website is also one of the best immersive 360-degree AR websites. Featuring the trenches and chapters from the film, movie buffs can walk around and explore the sets to full scale within the comfort of their home. Step up into the tracks, watch filmmakers bring the Oscar-winning film to the big screen, and learn the movie’s secrets in 3D. Immersive yourself into the exclusive behind-the-scene sites and explore the mile-long trenches in full-scale Web AR. The site has won several awards, worldwide praise, and pick-up from the press. The users can check out the detailed environment of the war on a real scale combined with a wide variety and in-depth content, resulting in an incredible dwell time of over 3.5 minutes. Best Website Design of 2019: The Octopus: A design blog by IDEO IDEO is one of the leading global design companies committed to creating human-centered designs and positive impact through their work. The Octopus Blog is a testament to their incredible work that has won the Best Business Blog/Website 2019 Webby award. The blog website is designed with a black-and-white theme and different Octopus drawing as its homepage design creates a cohesive theme as you scroll. With a tint of yellow highlighted in the blog titles and the images pulled towards you, the exciting website features make the audience enjoy scrolling, reading through the stories, and having a unique user experience. Best Website Design of 2019: Diana Danieli Diana Danieli is an interior design, construction, and furniture manufacturing brand that helps clients make their dream of an ideal home with exclusive interiors come true. The 2019 Webby Award winner for the best website design – their site displays a black-and-white theme with beautiful imagery of art and architecture with prime distinction and heavy exposure. Their cursor-cascading effect on the website is fantastic, engaging visitors to browse through the variations and photographs. Every picture on the website exhibits the creativity and extensive labor of the artist who owns the website. An excellent new effect of the website is that it has soothing audio and piano music incorporated which immerses the visitors. Best Website Design of 2019: George Nakashima Woodworkers George Nakashima – was a Japanese-American woodworker turned architect who emphasized nature care. The website represents his beautiful work which is legendary for its use of natural forms of the tree. The website is essentially a slideshow of his one-of-a-kind furniture pieces, philosophy, and beautiful forestry and farming images. His profound quotes of nature, trees, or wood mixed up with the website’s light yet elegant theme make it relaxing for the visitors and show that George Nakashima Woodworker’s work is incredible. He recognizes the beauty of trees and the environment. As a result, the website has won the Webby 2019 Honouring the Best of the Internet award. Best Website Design of 2019: Bruno-Simon Bringing you the most creative and interactive website online right now – Bruno Simon! The quirky animation and 3D virtual art on Bruno Simon’s homepage draw the user’s attention immediately upon arrival. The site won the Best Website Design of 2019 award for its awesome playful 3D WebGL art effects. The website is a portfolio of Bruno Simon – a freelance creative developer in Paris. It revolves around a simple car game with a bird’s eye view and is a combination of physics concepts, 3D visual art, standard technologies, and profound attention to detail. The website is an excellent example of how a portfolio site can go above and beyond with interactivity and walk around with an exciting gaming experience. Best Website Design of 2019: Matruecannabis The MA True Cannabis website is one of the best examples for companies in the Retail industry looking to revamp their website. Born from the desire to create a true emotional journey – the site offers unique designs mirroring the unique characteristics of their products and guides users through the Four Worlds. The orange-themed website has a youthful experience that produces a warm and friendly effect for the visitors. A perfect combination of creativity and 3D visuals, animated floating elements, overall, the website offers strong user engagement, and eCommerce functionalities merge into a seamless experience. Best Graphical Website Design: king King is not your ordinary graphical website. They are the leading interactive entertainment company with more than 200 games in its kitty, including the top-rated Candy Crush game. Won the best graphical website design award – their website is not just about colors, or icons, or images, it is more about the mascots they have built, the story behind them, and how users are connected deeply with each game. With the illustrations, motion graphics, audio/ video, and variety of colors, when you scroll down the page, the website is an experience in itself all remaining consistent with the brand. The three-dimensional appearance of each character makes the scrolling fun and the smart use of different ‘call-to-action’ buttons makes the site visit worthwhile. Top Animated Website Designs: Alan Menken Legendary composer – Alan Menken has created some of the most beloved Disney songs capturing the imagination of audiences for over 35 years. His website reflects his musical and poetic love and is one of the most incredible portfolio websites of this time. A compilation of all his famous work along with an exciting biography of the legend, the website weaves a compelling story along with interactive user navigation. The compositions of his famous songs come alive through a clean, minimalist interface and the use of large grids that encourage visitors to revisit their childhood memories and listen to the songs once again. Best Website Designs from 2018 Best Website Design of 2018: Crypton.trading A top-notch website that skillfully brings animation and AI experience to life with spectacular use of CSS and JavaScript. Cryptontrading demonstrates how to present cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin using modern solutions like artificial intelligence. The website helps understand changes in currency’s values as well as identify essential buying and selling opportunities. With its exciting concept and stunning execution, the website challenges our understanding of what is possible with AI on the web. As the visitor scrolls down, the site immerses the users into a very personal and engaging experience with Crypton’s greeting appearing on the home page, “Hello, I am Crypton,” one letter at a time. Best Website Design of 2018: Active-theory Active Theory takes a bold approach with animation to display its portfolio, leveraging a dynamic website, water-effect animation, typography, and high-quality images. Their site serves as a really excellent example of portraying their portfolio differently with brilliant navigation mechanics and visuals mixed with animation. Even if you are not AR and VR fan, the website’s innovative use of graphics and animation can explain a complicated visual experience that is hard to ignore. Their meticulously crafted and experienced team of in-house designers and developers have award-winning performance and attention to detail and are excellent to work with. Best Website Design of 2018: Koox Koox is the first Take Away, based in Central London, in partnership with top chefs of the city. Their website is one of the best designs of 2018 in the field of development and digital experiences. The unique watercolor theme, continuous scroll, and animation of vegetable illustrations, and smooth transition between different sections of the page, make the website outstanding. The designers have worked hard on beautiful illustrations that animate perfectly that enhance the design interface of the website, making it clean, aesthetically, and visually appealing. The captivating website will surely make the visitor order food they have to offer from the top chefs of London. Best Website Design of 2018: the Frans Hals Museum The 2018 Site of the Year Award winner from the Netherlands uses a combination of exhibit photography and digital design elements. This carefully crafted mixture guides visitors to the site through the experience they’ll have during a visit to the museum in person. This is a great combination of information and immersion that also effectively promotes the museum’s Instagram account seamlessly through the homepage. Best Website Designs from 2017 Best Website Design of 2017: NOWNESS One of the coolest crowdsourced video blogs, Nowness, is an award-winning website that creates the finest interactive and unforgettable user experiences. Most of the website’s content comes from independent creatives, which is, by far, one of the most popular ways for publishing more related content. When combined with big thumbnails and subtle typography, the video format creates a matchless website with a gallery of captivating content that breathes innovation, stories that every brand wants to tell, and creative approaches. Thus, just like the name, Nowness is all about a movement for innovative excellence and telling compelling stories in the very moment while celebrating the extraordinary of every day. Best Website Design of 2017: Simply Chocolate Denmark chocolate maker Simply Chocolate created this website with specific pages for every chocolate bar. One of the most delightful visual aspects of this site is the way all the products display consistency in branding as you scroll from one to the next. Every chocolate bar seems to pop off the screen, tempting you to reach out and grab it. Simply Chocolate manages to create an engaging and immersive experience with a relatively minimalist design concept that encourages the user to explore and continue engaging with the site. Best Website Designs from 2016 Best Website Design of 2016: Rainforest.arkivert One of the most immersive non-profit websites of 2016, Rainforest Guardian uses WebGL, immersive 360-panoramic images, unique stories and videos, and diverse content. You can get to know all about the Yanomami tribe of the Amazon, including the villages, natives, and waterways with a 3D effect. The website creates a fantastic user experience with incredible imagery, storytelling, visual designs, and, most of all, an interactive way to get people to connect with their social cause and convert into volunteers to protect nature. The smooth transitions, navigation mechanics, and stunning mountains in 3D capture users’ attention precisely. Best Website Design of 2016: Zillow Zillow is one of the leading real estate and rental marketplaces, providing users with data, inspiration, knowledge, and all the professional help they could get to find the perfect home of their dream. The website was rated high in 2016 for its aesthetically appealing, feature-rich, functional development. The minimalistic approach, flat color, and illustrations of the home pushed usability, accessibility, and seamless navigation on the website and catered to the right information with full details to the right audience. The site serves as a real example of properly executing maps with grid structure while still maintaining excellent visual designs. Best Website Design of 2016: Paper Planes With an invitation to use your mobile device in the right corner, a world spinning front and center, and paper airplanes flying throughout, this website by Active Theory in the U.S. accomplishes a lot by investing in a simple concept – the power of the web and an Android device creates instant connections and is as easy as tossing a paper plane. As the planes seem to come closer and then further around the world, users organically feel like they are part of the story – a clever trick for any website. Best Website Designs from 2015 Best Website Design of 2015: ETQ ETQ is one of the premium footwear brands in Europe’s main capitals. They have created a niche for themselves in the market with their different approach to footwear and signature style shoes. Their website reflects luxury and premium designs with a minimalistic approach to creating an optimal shopping experience for customers. The site is stripped down with big compelling visuals, flat color backgrounds, strong typography, and high-definition images of the products to keep the users’ focus on precisely what they came there to see, i.e., shoes. The site falls in line with the current website design trends, gripping product images, and a slew of subtle details that makes it stand out from the crowd. Best Website Design of 2015: Woven Magazine Featured by Best Website Gallery A good website design has become increasingly important, especially in the world of media and publishing. And Woven Magazine’s website aesthetically appeals to readers with an exciting concept and stunning execution. What captures the viewers are the large images, video thumbnails, and articles that dominate the page, capturing the attention to what matters the most to the company, i.e., information. The online publication creates a clean design, clean typography, easy-to-read content, and an engaging website, free of any distractions like ads or pop-ups, giving the readers the experience of the content itself. With simple maneuvering and continuity throughout, the site’s makers and thinkers celebrate artists and artisans with their stories of fear and triumph, attitude and spirit, risk, and return. Best Website Design of 2015: Feed Feed offers visitors a truly unique and immersive experience. From the moment users click on the Feed Music website, a creative combination of video content and animation creates an incredibly engaging experience. This site is a perfect example of how to create immersive experiences with multimedia. No matter what type of organization you run, video and animation can be perfect assets for engaging users directly and grabbing their attention as soon as they arrive on your homepage. Best Website Designs from 2011 – 2014 Best Website Design of 2014: Aquest The website of AQuest is an implausible example of incredible imagery, story-telling, creative use of multimedia and animation, visual design, and, most of all, sound engineering. They have also harnessed the benefits of infographics for their website. There is a lot to be said about the typography, cursor hover effects, and smart use of motion in this project. The designers have spent a lot of time on interaction and rollovers on the website. Mirroring their outstanding work in Website, Social, Films, 3D, and Labs, AQuest’s dark background theme with a combination of excellent visual effects brings a unique motion style to the website. The feeling of creativity can be perceived in every corner of this production and technology company website. Best Website Design of 2013: Hellomonday Called Hello Monday to make Mondays better – the company is a creative studio that makes digital ideas, experiences, brands, and products come alive. Their creativity is well reflected in their website which offers unique digital experiences, tickles the brain, and pleases the eye. Not only is Hello Monday an exciting concept, but it is also a stunning execution and display of services and insights with a creative blend of animation and visual effects on pixel-rich graphics – overall, the site immerses the user into a very engaging experience. As an atypical site, it contains bold use of fonts, easy user navigation, and several unique usability elements. Best Website Design of 2012: Blacknegative With the ‘Dark Mode’ design trending in 2023, Black Negative is a website that stands out with its smart use of dark background paired with subtle colors, and call-to-action buttons – offering the visitor a smooth visual experience. Visiting Black Negative’s website is a unique experience because of its fascinating design, excellent use of fonts, creative navigation, high-resolution photographs, fantastic video quality, and focus on small details. The technical skill displayed by the designers using rich multimedia content, harmonious flow, and background music site-wide is merely remarkable. Born on September 22, 2011, Slavery Footprint is a non-profit organization that works to engage individuals, groups, and businesses to build awareness against modern-day slavery. Their website pushes accessibility, usability, and responsive design to the next level. When a visitor launches their homepage, the breaking of the chain design catches their eyes, giving a clear message of the company’s mission of freeing modern-day slaves. The site offers an interactive experience to members with a unique pop-up design for each menu. The Slavery Footprint Website is a perfect example for Non-profit organizations on how to keep the members engaged and grab attention to their cause. Best SEO-Friendly Website Design: SPINX Digital This Los Angeles-based website design and digital marketing company have won one of the Best SEO-friendly Website Design awards for its well-strategized content placement, keyword use, and templates. SPINX Digital did an exceptional job of making a visually appealing and progressive website highlighting their services in a simple and easy-to-digest way. Their team has worked a lot on designing a great SEO web architecture based on keyword research and has strived to make their website responsive. Simple, flat, color-based backgrounds accompanied by light-loading times, strong typography, informative content, and pixel-rich graphics helped them to keep the focus on exactly what the user came there to see: Services. This makes them the best choice for your web design in Los Angeles to have a site that stands out and speaks to people. There you have it – A list of some of the most creative websites on the internet today. So if you are looking for a Sitecore agency or a web design agency or even an agency that will give you the best branding services, you will find it all online. You can leverage it to create a visually appealing, relevant, and innovative website for your company and stand out in the industry. Balance Web Design With Powerful Messaging These sites represent some of the most forward-thinking yet functional and intuitive web design options gaining popularity in 2023. They are so forward-looking that you would even be able to find a Drupal development company amongst them. It’s always a good idea to try and glean inspiration from as many sources as possible when you’re looking for ways to revolutionize your own website. These sites are just a few to continue watching in 2023 and are perfect examples of blending clever business and tasteful aesthetic design. If you’re trying to strike out in a new direction with a bold new website design concept, take a moment to look through our best website designs list along with Awwwards’ past winners and current nominees for inspiration. Hiring top creative agencies for you is all the more reason why you need to go through each design diligently. Why? Because that’s how you choose the most relevant agency for your niche. The goal of your website redesign should be to come up with a renewed and refurbished site that speaks to your customers, and your customers only, in a way your best customer service executive would speak to them. Personally. This is where we hope the list above will act as your guiding force. It is our very own customer service executive for you. So you can find the best Branding Agencies available in the market today. Web Design Patterns to Make Part of Your Website Revamp Web design patterns help designers map the website while creating it, resulting in a smoother customer experience by providing the right elements at the correct touchpoints. When looking for a design partner, you must equip yourself with essential knowledge about web design patterns. It helps you know what patterns are available, sparks inputs, and enables you to work collaboratively with the design agency. Read ahead to learn about website design patterns: Wizard- This pattern of website designs helps the user reach their goal on your site faster. It is enabled by simplifying and breaking down the process, wherein the user must complete the previous step before advancing. This is made possible with simple navigation and clear language. Infinite Scroll- In this website design, the content on the site keeps loading as the user scrolls to the bottom of the window or the page they are on. This pattern allows the user to explore the page, keeping their interaction with your content high. Breadcrumbs- In this navigation form, users can understand their location on the website. A navigation bar with horizontal text links allows users to jump across pages. Grid Layout- As one of the most famous website design patterns, the grid divides the page into columns with equal width and space between them. The number of columns can be decided beforehand, with page elements determined based on these boundaries. Hamburger Button- This pattern of website designs helps de-clutter the website page by compactly presenting the navigation. The user is led from one page to another through three lines horizontally stacked at the top of the page. Pull-to-Refresh- When users want to refresh a page on their mobile, they need to pull the page downwards with their finger and release it. As one of the most convenient elements of website designs, this pattern should indicate when the page must be refreshed through icons or text. Shopping Cart- This website design pattern has seen widespread adoption with the rise and advent of eCommerce worldwide. As part of this pattern, your customers can add items to a cart for a final purchase at a later point. Users should be allowed to add and delete items before their last transaction goes through. Drag and Drop Uploads- This pattern of website designs increases the user’s convenience by allowing them to upload required files from their devices directly. Essential parts of getting this right are making the process of dropping files easier, letting the user know when the file has been uploaded, and providing a search button. Modal Window- Modal windows help attract attention to a single element on the page. The window appears in front of the content, not allowing you to interact with the other content. It generally only disappears on completing the task or dismissing the window. One-Finger Navigation- This is a holistic element of website design that considers that users will be holding their devices with one hand. Elements are placed within reach of the user, far away from the top of the page. Website Design Ideas In early 2020, the world flipped upside down with the widespread corona pandemic. Businesses, be it in any industry vertical, was forced to pivot and adapt new remote working methodologies. In addition, remote work culture changed the way companies communicated with their customers and acquired new business. With the world drastically switching to a new mode of business ‘Online Business websites have business crucial for existence and compete in the tight-knit market. To help you crush the competition and accentuate your business, we bring you website design ideas to push your status quo on the web. Be its usability, content, ideas to increase traffic, interactivity, responsiveness, sound design, or value? Of course, your website has to be a masterpiece in your respective industry to make you stand out. The below pointers, when combined with diligence, time, patience, and a great deal of inspiration, will help you get the website. Be Interactive Your website is the face of your organization, do not make it boring make it interactive. Interactive websites increase user engagement leading to enhanced experience. It helps lead visitors to the information that they are searching for. With numerous ways to interact with users, designers can pick what is best for their design. Design your page to have animations that can tell your story. Incorporate tools like social media buttons, Google Maps, and calculators. These tools help the visitor in performing the desired action. Engage with visitors by conducting polls, and quizzes and asking for feedback or ratings. Last but not least, don’t forget to consider UX tools to bring your ideas into reality and apply design principles to represent the strategies. Mobile Experience Consumers have been consistently increasing the use of mobile devices for their daily needs. A great experience on mobile devices is the start of the user experience journey. A user should be able to perform all the actions on the mobile device that a desktop website offers. A few elements like faster loading times, intuitive and easy navigation, search options, and calm colors will help in enhancing the mobile user experience. Visual Elements Brands are not created but built on trust, beliefs, and vision. Knowing your story is a part of building your brand awareness. Visitors want to know your journey and the story that separates you above from the crowd. And using visual elements is an excellent way of telling a story. Web designers are using photographs, videos, audio, and text to create an engaging brand. It helps consumers to relate with brands, fostering long-term relationships with your users. Use Photographs Interactive websites are great, but they are not built in a day or on a shoestring budget. It’s understood that not every business has an expensive budget or luxurious timelines for creating websites, but that should not stop companies from creating awesome websites. Designers are using stunning photographs to engage users. Make sure to use relevant, high-quality images. Rescale and optimize them for your use. If used the right image, it can be worth a thousand words. Pay attention to Call-To-Actions CTA or call-to-action buttons help users perform an intended action. Like subscribing to a newsletter, buying a product, filling out a form, or reading more. CTA is a vital button that encourages the visitor to take action making it imperative to handle CTA with care. Make sure it is visible, correctly placed, and does what it says. It takes effort to design an efficient CTA, and it is worth it. Easy Navigation There has been a study that shows 94% of users expect the website to be easily navigated. When building a new website or restoring a current site, designers should keep navigation their top priority. Navigation toolbars and menus should be kept simple, and visible, and have accurate names, to create an intuitive experience. In the end, make sure there are not many navigation links that will confuse the consumer with what to click and where to go. Social Media It is inevitable to have a social media plan in your growth strategy. Integrating social media into your website should be treated as a logical step and not an optional activity. Social media helps increase brand influence and awareness. It also improves engagement with your business and helps shape a better presence on social media. Social media also helps gain insights into consumer behavior and their needs, which in turn can help your conversions or sales. Web Design Factors that Impact Your Website Conversion Rate The conversion rate can be calculated by dividing the number of visitors who have performed the desired action by the total number of visitors. Conversion rate optimization impacts the company’s overall revenue as it results in the customer carrying out the desired action on your site. When working on the website design for your company, you need to keep certain elements that improve the conversion rate in mind. Learning about these elements will help you co-create a site more efficiently with the website design agency of your choice. Read ahead to learn more: Images: Visuals are an essential part of website design, impacting the quality of the content on your site. High-quality images keep your viewers on the page for longer, making them more likely to engage with your content and product. Typography: Typography plays a navigational role in website design. If you want the visitor to comment, click or read through more posts, typography plays a significant part by drawing the viewer’s attention to the right places. Whitespace: When used correctly, whitespace can increase the viewer’s focus on your site. Using this element of website design the right way can bring attention to the text, images, and icons while reducing noise and clutter on the page. Color: Color plays an essential role in web design as it evokes certain emotions in the viewer. Based on the feeling you want your viewer to experience, the right mix of colors needs to be at the correct places on the site. Mobile Friendliness: In today’s day and age, it is essential to have a mobile-friendly site, as most customers are browsing sites from their phones. Your site should be mobile-friendly, with seamless navigation, resized content, and a fast load time. CTAs: CTAs are the element of website design that convert people from visitors to customers. Simple, direct, urgent, well-placed, and user-friendly CTAs help lead the viewer toward the action you want them to take on your site. Social Proof: Customers look for social proof before they purchase a product on the web. Positive reviews make customers more likely to buy a product as it positively impacts your reputation by adding credibility to your brand. A/B Testing: If you want your website design to be effective, you must conduct A/B testing to see which headline, CTA, and layout work best for your customers. Heatmaps help visualize the data and analyze what parts of the site are clicked the most and least. Load Time: With multiple options available today, getting the load time right can help your brand. The site should take approximately 2-3 seconds to load so that customers do not jump to another site out of frustration. Hyperlink: Hyperlinking is essential to the customer’s experience on your site by improving navigation. It links one part of the site to another and can be used to direct your customer toward the desired landing or purchase pages. Icons: In a world where people are always on the go, they want to consume scannable content. Icons help achieve precisely this. Icons provide customers with the desired information quickly, resulting in more conversions. Frequently Ask Question 1] What type of websites would attract the most visitors? The internet has a wide variety of websites under broad categories trying to accomplish different things. In addition, visitors have over 2 billion websites with other content out there to discover. If you start from square one or try to revamp your website or build your website, it can be intimidating to pick the correct type of website design and category. Here is the rundown on 8 of the most popular types of websites on the web that will give you inspiration on which website to make: 1) eCommerce Website If you are into a services or products company, an eCommerce website is one of the most popular websites. It allows you to sell items directly to the customers instead of monetizing content or generating business via ads or content. It is a platform to buy and sell goods with payment integration and a shopping cart, precisely like your brick-and-mortar store just over the internet. 2) Personal Blog/Vlog Are you into sharing stories or poetry via content? Or are you an influencer or a celebrity? You would probably need a personal blog website! On-trend, these days, these types of websites are handled by a single person with a focus on a specific niche. You can create a personal blog for anything related to travel, beauty, fashion, food, parenting, self-improvement, health and wellness, and more. You can start a personal blog pretty much on anything and use it as your diary to share your thoughts with the mass. 3) Business Website If you own a business, you probably need a website to promote it. With people moving to the internet for everything, having a business website is very crucial in the digital age. If you are not on the internet today, you could lose critical business to your competitors, as there are high chances they already have one website. 4) Brochure/Catalogue Website A more straightforward business website, brochure/catalog website helps visitors view your products easily but with less information. But if you have the budget, you should always opt for a traditional business website that is more robust and SEO-friendly. But if the online website is not a significant driver for your business and you need an online presence, this website can be beneficial. 5) Portfolio Website Next on the list is the portfolio website used to showcase your creations, products, or services virtually in the same way as a physical portfolio. This can help your customers go through your work, understand your talent or abilities, or can also improve your chances of securing a job if the website is your portfolio. A must-have for freelancers or creative persons looking for work. Do you choreograph dance? Upload your dance reels or video choreography samples. 6) Entertainment/News Website Are you looking for some websites to pass the time during a lockdown? Well, you might undoubtedly have come across several entertainment/news/media websites everywhere across the web. Blurred by minor difference – Media/News websites have detailed stories/news covering current events. In contrast, entertainment websites cover gossip, humor, fun pieces, quizzes, and other content which can spark your interest or giggle. 7) Non-profit NGO Website As the name suggests, these websites are popular for Non-profit/NGO organizations. Websites can help them reach the masses and put their objective in front of them transparently. This is also the best way to find funding, build support, spread awareness, devote to the cause, and carry out the mission successfully. Empower, Educate, and Enrich your audience with a motivational website and its content. 8) Video Streaming/ Photo Sharing Website Last on our list is the widely popular video streaming or photo-sharing websites like Netflix, Prime Video, YouTube, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, and more. With a recent surge in these types of websites over the last decade, you can quickly gain so much traffic, bandwidth streaming, and broad reach with each back-end maintenance. 2] What are the current trends in the best website designs? The only thing that is constant in these unprecedented times is having a business with remote workplace culture. To keep this business running, you need a functional and interactive website that can get you more traffic and good business. And for a good website, you need to follow the upcoming website design trends. Here we have listed the top 6 trends for you to follow for a great website. 1) Voice Search Consumers are consistently using voice search rather than typing in the queries. With the growing popularity of voice search make sure your website has naturally flowing keywords. Voice search fetches featured snippets. To optimize feature snippets make sure to have a summary of the web page in it. 2) Dark Mode Designers have started including dark mode options. Dark Mode has several benefits to its name. It not only saves battery but also causes less strain to the eyes as compared to brighter screens. The dark mode is used in both mobile apps and desktop websites. It also adds a stylish touch to the web design. 3) Use of Bots According to a study over 50% of users have interacted with chatbots. These are becoming an integral part of websites. The use of chatbot marketing is not new but chatbot technology is growing by leaps and bounds. Their functionality is improving and so is their application. Chatbots have moved on from simple Q&A bots to conversational chatbots. 4) Abstract Shapes Abstract shapes are simple lines, squares, and circles. When used on a vast web canvas it can create stunning web designs. Web designers have started using abstract shapes as an alternative to traditional photography or images. Couple up abstract shapes with vibrant colors and the result can be mesmerizing. 5) Parallax Scrolling Multiple elements on the webpage that move at varying speeds and create an illusion of depth are called Parallax scrolling animation. The difference in background and foreground elements does the trick. These web animations are complex, but they create an immersive and surreal user experience. Designers can use the parallax effect to create focus on vital website elements. 6) Calm Colors Traditional colors and bright screens cause eye strain as consumers use devices for longer times. To move away from the monotonous dark and white modes, designers are using softer color palettes. Soft colors not only create a calm effect but also helps the user focus on the website and enhance their interaction with the website.
