Domains Agile Management Master Agile methodologies for efficient and timely project delivery. View All Agile Management Courses Certifications Scrum Alliance 16 Hours Best Seller Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) Certification Scrum Alliance 16 Hours Best Seller Certified Scrum Product Owner (CSPO) Certification Scaled Agile 16 Hours Trending Leading SAFe 6.0 Certification Scrum.org 16 Hours Professional Scrum Master (PSM) Certification Scaled Agile 16 Hours SAFe 6.0 Scrum Master (SSM) Certification Advanced Certifications Scaled Agile, Inc. 32 Hours Recommended Implementing SAFe 6.0 (SPC) Certification Scaled Agile, Inc. 24 Hours SAFe 6.0 Release Train Engineer (RTE) Certification Scaled Agile, Inc. 16 Hours Trending SAFe® 6.0 Product Owner/Product Manager (POPM) IC Agile 24 Hours ICP Agile Certified Coaching (ICP-ACC) Scrum.org 16 Hours Professional Scrum Product Owner I (PSPO I) Training Masters 32 Hours Trending Agile Management Master's Program 32 Hours Agile Excellence Master's Program On-Demand Courses Agile and Scrum Roles Scrum MasterProduct OwnerSAFe AgilistAgile Coach Tech Courses and Bootcamps Full Stack Developer BootcampData Science BootcampCloud Masters BootcampReactNode JsKubernetesCertified Ethical HackingAWS Solutions Architect AssociateAzure Data Engineer Accreditation Bodies Scrum AllianceScaled Agile, Inc.Scrum.orgICAgilePMI Top Resources Scrum TutorialCSM VS CSPOCSM vs PSMScrum Practice TestPO Interview Qs Project Management Gain expert skills to lead projects to success and timely completion. View All Project Management Courses Certifications PMI 36 Hours Best Seller Project Management Professional (PMP) Certification Axelos 32 Hours PRINCE2 Foundation & Practitioner Certification Axelos 16 Hours PRINCE2 Foundation Certification Axelos 16 Hours PRINCE2 Practitioner Certification Skills Change ManagementProject Management TechniquesCertified Associate in Project Management (CAPM) CertificationOracle Primavera P6 CertificationMicrosoft Project Masters Job Oriented 45 Hours Trending Project Management Master's Program University Programs 45 Hours Trending Project Management Master's Program On-Demand Courses PRINCE2 Practitioner CoursePRINCE2 Foundation Course Roles Project ManagerProgram Management ProfessionalPortfolio Management Professional Accreditation Bodies PMIAxelosScrum Alliance Top Resources Theories of MotivationManagement ProcessProject Manager Intvw QsWhat is PMP?PMP Practice Test Cloud Computing Learn to harness the cloud to deliver computing resources efficiently. View All Cloud Computing Courses Certifications AWS 32 Hours Best Seller AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate AWS 32 Hours AWS Cloud Practitioner Certification AWS 24 Hours AWS DevOps Certification Microsoft 16 Hours Azure Fundamentals Certification Microsoft 24 Hours Best Seller Azure Administrator Certification Microsoft 45 Hours Recommended Azure Data Engineer Certification Microsoft 32 Hours Azure Solution Architect Certification Microsoft 40 Hours Azure DevOps Certification AWS 24 Hours Systems Operations on AWS Certification Training AWS 24 Hours Developing on AWS Masters Job Oriented 48 Hours New AWS Cloud Architect Masters Program Bootcamps Career Kickstarter 100 Hours Trending Cloud Engineer Bootcamp Roles Cloud EngineerCloud Architect On-Demand Courses AWS Certified Developer Associate - Complete GuideAWS Certified DevOps EngineerAWS Certified Solutions Architect AssociateMicrosoft Certified Azure Data Engineer AssociateMicrosoft Azure Administrator (AZ-104) CourseAWS Certified SysOps Administrator AssociateMicrosoft Certified Azure Developer AssociateAWS Certified Cloud Practitioner Authorized Partners of AWSMicrosoft Top Resources Scrum TutorialCSM VS CSPOCSM vs PSMScrum Practice TestPO Interview Qs IT Service Management Understand how to plan, design, and optimize IT services efficiently. View All DevOps Courses Certifications Axelos 16 Hours Best Seller ITIL 4 Foundation Certification Axelos 16 Hours ITIL Practitioner Certification PeopleCert 16 Hours ISO 14001 Foundation Certification PeopleCert 16 Hours ISO 20000 Certification PeopleCert 24 Hours ISO 27000 Foundation Certification Axelos 24 Hours ITIL 4 Specialist: Create, Deliver and Support Training Axelos 24 Hours ITIL 4 Specialist: Drive Stakeholder Value Training Axelos 16 Hours ITIL 4 Strategist Direct, Plan and Improve Training On-Demand Courses ITIL 4 Specialist: Create, Deliver and Support ExamITIL 4 Specialist: Drive Stakeholder Value (DSV) CourseITIL 4 Strategist: Direct, Plan, and ImproveITIL 4 Foundation Top Resources ITIL Practice TestITSM Key ConceptsWhat is ITIL?Top SysAdmin SkillsTop Service-based Firms Data Science Unlock valuable insights from data with advanced analytics. View All Data Science Courses Bootcamps Job Oriented 6 Months Trending Data Science Bootcamp Job Oriented 289 Hours Data Engineer Bootcamp Job Oriented 6 Months Data Analyst Bootcamp Job Oriented 288 Hours New AI Engineer Bootcamp Skills Data Science with PythonMachine Learning with PythonData Science with RMachine Learning with RPython for Data ScienceDeep Learning Certification TrainingNatural Language Processing (NLP)TensorFlowSQL For Data Analytics Roles Data ScientistData AnalystData EngineerAI Engineer On-Demand Courses Data Analysis Using ExcelDeep Learning with Keras and TensorFlowDeployment of Machine Learning ModelsFundamentals of Reinforcement LearningIntroduction to Cutting-Edge AI with TransformersMachine Learning with PythonMaster Python: Advance Data Analysis with PythonMaths and Stats FoundationNatural Language Processing (NLP) with PythonPython for Data ScienceSQL for Data Analytics CoursesAI Advanced: Computer Vision for AI ProfessionalsMaster Applied Machine LearningMaster Time Series Forecasting Using Python Top Resources Machine Learning TutorialData Science Interview Questions DevOps Automate and streamline the delivery of products and services. View All DevOps Courses Certifications DevOps Institute 16 Hours Best Seller DevOps Foundation Certification CNCF 32 Hours New Certified Kubernetes Administrator Devops Institute 16 Hours Devops Leader Skills KubernetesDocker with KubernetesDockerJenkinsOpenstackAnsibleChefPuppet Roles DevOps EngineerDevOps Expert On-Demand Courses CI/CD with Jenkins XDevOps Using JenkinsCI-CD and DevOpsDocker & KubernetesDevOps Fundamentals Crash CourseMicrosoft Certified DevOps Engineer ExpertAnsible for Beginners: The Complete Crash CourseContainer Orchestration Using KubernetesContainerization Using DockerMaster Infrastructure Provisioning with Terraform Global Accreditations DevOps Institute Top Resources Top DevOps ProjectsDevOps Practice TestDevOps Interview QsGit TutorialBasic Docker Commands BI And Visualization Understand how to transform data into actionable, measurable insights. View All BI And Visualization Courses BI and Visualization Tools Certification 24 Hours Recommended Tableau Certification Certification 24 Hours Data Visualization with Tableau Certification Microsoft 24 Hours Best Seller Microsoft Power BI Certification TIBCO 36 Hours TIBCO Spotfire Training Certification 30 Hours Data Visualization with QlikView Certification Certification 16 Hours Sisense BI Certification On-Demand Courses Data Visualization Using Tableau TrainingData Analysis Using Excel Top Resources Python Data Viz LibsSpotfire Interview QsTop Benefits of Power BIPower BI Dev Future Cyber Security Understand how to protect data and systems from threats or disasters. View All Cyber Security Courses Certifications CompTIA 40 Hours Best Seller CompTIA Security+ EC-Council 40 Hours Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH v12) Certification ISACA 22 Hours Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) Certification ISACA 40 Hours Certified Information Security Manager (CISM) Certification (ISC)² 40 Hours Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) (ISC)² 40 Hours Certified Cloud Security Professional (CCSP) Certification 16 Hours Certified Information Privacy Professional - Europe (CIPP-E) Certification ISACA 16 Hours COBIT5 Foundation 16 Hours Payment Card Industry Security Standards (PCI-DSS) Certification On-Demand Courses CISSP Top Resources Laptops for IT SecurityIT Security Thesis TopicEthical Hacking Intvw QsCybersecurity in BankingBasics of Cybersecurity Web Development Learn to create user-friendly, fast, and dynamic web applications. View All Web Development Courses Bootcamps Career Kickstarter 6 Months Best Seller Full-Stack Developer Bootcamp Job Oriented 3 Months Best Seller UI/UX Design Bootcamp Enterprise Recommended 6 Months Java Full Stack Developer Bootcamp Career Kickstarter 490+ Hours Front-End Development Bootcamp Career Accelerator 4 Months Backend Development Bootcamp (Node JS) Skills ReactNode JSAngularJavascriptPHP and MySQL On-Demand Courses Angular TrainingBasics of Spring Core and MVCFront-End Development BootcampReact JS TrainingSpring Boot and Spring CloudMongoDB Developer Course Top Resources Top HTML ProjectsFED Interview QsReact Native Interview Qs Blockchain Understand how transactions and databases work in blockchain technology. View All Blockchain Courses Blockchain Certifications 40 Hours Blockchain Professional Certification 32 Hours Blockchain Solutions Architect Certification 32 Hours Blockchain Security Engineer Certification 24 Hours Blockchain Quality Engineer Certification 5+ Hours Blockchain 101 Certification On-Demand Courses NFT Essentials 101: A Beginner's GuideIntroduction to DeFi Top Resources Blockchain Interview Qs Programming Learn to code efficiently and design software that solves problems. View All Programming Courses Skills Python CertificationAdvanced Python CourseR Programming LanguageAdvanced R CourseJavaJava Deep DiveScalaAdvanced ScalaC# TrainingMicrosoft .Net Framework Interview Prep Career Accelerator 3 Months Software Engineer Interview Prep On-Demand Courses Data Structures and Algorithms with JavaScriptData Structures and Algorithms with Java: The Practical GuideLinux Essentials for Developers: The Complete MasterclassMaster Git and GitHubMaster Java Programming LanguageProgramming Essentials for BeginnersSoftware Engineering Fundamentals and Lifecycle (SEFLC) CourseTest-Driven Development for Java ProgrammersTypeScript: Beginner to Advanced Top Resources Python TutorialR Programming TutorialSpring Boot Interview Qs A project is a time bound activity taken-up with a group of individuals to put together a product, service or an outcome. It is transitional in nature such that it has a definite time for commencement and conclusion with a well-defined scope, resources, and timelines. It is important that each and every person in the project management team is well-aware of their goals, resources, timelines, and processes. It is also important that the objective of the project is made clear to everyone. It is possible that the people involved in a particular project, work from different locations, organizations, and even different geographies. Therefore, it is mandatory that the team involved in a project is in alignment right from initiation till the completion stage. Project Management is the integration of processes, knowledge, methodology, skills, resources and techniques to achieve the objectives set for the project within the given time. Get an online pmp certification training to learn all about project management concepts on the go. During the mid 20th century, Project Management got its distinct identity as a profession and ‘A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge - PMBOK ® Guide' by the Project Management Institute(PMI) ® identifies its fundamental components. Following are the five stages that apply to most of the projects, be it software development, construction of a building or even the launch of a rocket: The constituents of Project Management comprise of the following: What differentiates Project Management from other types of management is the streamlined process of the project lifecycle from conception to delivery and project handover with its numerous elements that shape the journey, influencing its rapid growth worldwide. Apart from the cohesive team effort in the successful completion of any project, the one person on whose shoulders the entire project rests is the Project Manager. They have a profound knowledge of all the intricacies of the project to steer it efficiently towards the desired goal. There are five common stages to the project management cycle developed by the Project Management Institute – PMI ® . These are Conception or the initial stage, planning, execution, performance monitoring and the closure or the concluding stage. A team of more than 80 PMI ® members developed the guide to Project Management Book of Knowledge – PMBOK ® Guide. This guide book encapsulates the fundamental principles of project management to achieve the best results that have become a benchmark for project management studies worldwide. Acknowledging that each project is different, the guide details some of the process standards that can be applied to any project. The 5 stages of Project Management: The project is analyzed in a comprehensive manner including its feasibility, scope, timelines, cost and so on with a bit of research on the related subject. This stage will help you decide whether you want to go ahead with the project considering all aspects including its stakeholders and the successful completion of the project on time. A Project Initiation Document (PID) is developed that summarizes the scope and requirements of the project. The success of the project depends on planning. It develops a blueprint that everyone can follow. One of the key components in the planning stage is goal setting and elements to measure the progress and success of the project. Goals must be realistic and achievable within the timelines with the resources allocated for it. The planning stage also defines the roles and responsibilities for each and every team member involved in the project with a clear definition of what is expected from them. One must also take into consideration the drawbacks and shortcomings at this stage that could create snags in the project. During the planning stage, measures must be outlined to steer clear of such situations. There are two popular methods adapted for Goal Setting during the planning stage. They are SMART Goals and CLEAR Goals. Specific – specific goals are set that have answers to who, what, where, why, when and which. Measurable – yardsticks are developed to measure the success of the goals set. Attainable – distinguishes the most crucial goals and the strategy to achieve them. Realistic – A goal must be realistic to the extent that everyone identifies with it and agrees to achieve it. Timely – Create the timeframe within which you can achieve the goal. Collaborative – The goal must be such that all the team members get motivated to work together towards it. Limited – The scope must be limited to ensure it is managed effectively. Emotional – There must be an emotional connect towards achieving the goal such that it inspires them to do so. Appreciable – Big tasks are fragmented to make it convenient to achieve. Refinable – Goals must be refined according to incidents and situations during the process. The project kick starts at this stage. It almost feels like the crux of the project since deliverables are defined. During the execution stage, the teams are declared, and resources are allocated. The project management plans are rolled out with procurements and supplies. Since the ball gets rolling, the Project Manager keeps an eye to guide the team in managing the project effectively. Project tracking is put in place. Tasks are assigned and executed while meetings are scheduled, and plans are altered to suit the requirements. From the execution stage, the progress of the project is measured, which is a continuous process till the end of the project. Project tracking is done to ensure tasks are being completed as per schedule. Any deviations or shortcomings are immediately addressed with alternative measures. The smooth functioning of the project is determined through Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). Usually, a Project Manager selects two to five of these KPIs to measure the project performance. This is when the project is completed and ready for handover. All members and team leaders are recognized and acknowledged. A concluding meeting is usually held with all the key stakeholders and team members to look back at what was done well and where were the pitfalls. This contributes to a learning experience that can be taken care of during the next project. A final project report is prepared including the final project budget, after approval from all stakeholders. Project Management is an intricate and an essential part of any venture you start. It involves the development of a detailed strategy of the proposed initiative clearly defining its purpose, goals, budget, timelines, resources and so on. While explaining the scope of your project, you will also have to take into consideration the aspects that could slip or cause interruptions in order to be ready with alternative plans to achieve your concluding objective within the specified timeframe. Let’s look at some of the fundamental principles of Project Management that govern the success of the whole initiative. These basic principles are useful while starting a new program or introducing learning and development modules, especially if you’re collaborating on the HR, quality and operational enhancement processes. The most important vision for a Project Manager is to successfully complete the project within time with all its deliverables. It must clearly define your goals and objectives. This will need to prepare a roadmap to achieve the set objectives. The goals and objectives you set must be measurable, relevant and realistic that can be achieved within the scheduled time frame. The appropriate resources and tools must be provided to achieve the goal. A cohesive approach bringing all the team members on to the same page with a single vision is critical to the success of any project. A Project Manager works along with his/her team to develop a project plan with risk assessment and clarity on goals and objectives. They manage and guide the team throughout the project phase taking it to its desired closure. The Project Manager also takes inputs, feedback and approval from clients and other stakeholders for each of the task components of the project. Communication, documentation, risk management, reporting, scheduling and escalating issues are some of the important attributes that a Project Manager dwells with. Some of the skill sets mandatory for a Project Manager includes: Once the responsibilities are taken, it is important to stay committed and be accountable for the project at every stage. Everyone in the project team must unanimously agree to the principles, goals, scope, quality and schedule of the project. Communication plays an important role in bridging the gaps. Sharing information and feedback will contribute to the smooth flow of the project. The milestones are defined using this principle with a planner that indicates work schedules, estimates and timelines for each task or module. The detailed schedule will specify the man-hours at your disposal and the bandwidth you have to complete the project. It cautions you not to make unrealistic commitments that cannot be achieved in the given timeframe. A clearly defined framework that has been agreed upon by all stakeholders and teammates will ensure smooth completion of the project. As opinions and views differ from people to people, the Project Manager must bring everyone on the same page with clearly defined objectives of the project to set expectations right. Each of the team members also must know their individual responsibilities and deliverables. Documenting the same using a Gantt chart, a project management software or even an excel sheet will help in mapping the tasks to get a bird’s eye view of the project. Monitoring the tasks closely will help in taking corrective action as and when required. Clearly defining goals and milestones before the commencement of the project will bring clarity on expectations. Milestones indicate the successful completion of significant portions of the project. They would also boost the team’s morale and acknowledge them for their commitment. Managing the scope of the project in order to maintain quality, time schedule and cost estimates with well-defined objectives is crucial to the success of any project. A timely review is part of the mandate to understand the shortcomings and take remedial measures after discussing with respective team members. This helps in consistent process improvement. Being aware of risks and managing them effectively is part of the Project Manager’s role. One needs to be cautious about the potential risk factors during project execution, which could also be gathered using previous project experiences, data and knowledge from other members involved in the project. Remedial measures to encounter such risks is also essential. This is not a one-time activity; risk evaluation is a consistent exercise that must be taken up during various stages of the project. Understanding risks helps you navigate through it and emerge as a winner. For more information about the principles of Project Management look for a Project Management Professional(PMP) ® Certification Training Institute near you. Project Management seems complicated; however, it is easy to comprehend. The significant aspect is to know the benefits or advantages of Project Management. You ought to be a pro with basic organizational skills to manage any type of project effectively – it could be a wedding or the construction of a sea-link. Knowledge comes from playing the right chords to get the desired tune. It is the effective utilization of resources and knowing how and when to use them appropriately. Let’s look at the value addition given by Project Managers that will clarify why project management by a professional is so important. For starters, they hold the team and the client or stakeholders together. They are like a compass that shows the direction and guides you to your desired destination. They deliver whatever is required to keep the project on track through all ups and downs, managing conflicts and challenges, risks and team spirits that keep the project rolling. When a project is executed efficiently and managed well, it resonates beyond completion and handover. It leaves a trail of success. Project Management ensures that each of the segments in the project development phase are aligned to its business objectives, complementing the client’s perspective in a broader sense. It aims to deliver value through return on investment. Facing risks and challenges is part of any project. The effectiveness of a Project Manager is when they are able to realign their strategy to achieve business objectives. Any project that’s completed on time within the budget pleases the client and the stakeholders. And, when a client is happy, your work is appreciated and recommended to others. Smart Project Management ensures a healthy client-manager relationship. A Project Manager is the leader of the project. They give direction and are in command. Without them, the project lacks alignment and pace. They motivate the teams to bring out the best in them and provide the route map in achieving the project goal. Project Managers ensure the teams work within the given framework and follow set guidelines. They follow processes and protocols and carry the responsibility of the entire project till its completion. Without a leader, the teams lack direction and focus. They need clear briefs and a proper outlook. Their roles and responsibilities are clearly outlined by the Project Manager to ensure there are no conflicts. The project is executed in a systematic manner. Tasks are accomplished on time. The tasks are given in smaller portions that help the teams to focus better, complete on time and take corrective measures quickly whenever necessary. A Project Manager estimates the budget, sets the objectives, evaluates timelines and allocates resources. Without the Project Manager, goals and objectives could be over-ambitious or illogical. The timelines may not be realistic and the resources and tools may not be adequate. A Project Manager is able to take into consideration all the risks involved and substitutes to manage unexpected outcomes. A Project Manager understands the scope of the project and delegates work in a manner that doesn’t feel overburdened to the teams. A dedicated Project Manager for every project – large or small ensures timely delivery, proper utilization of resources and quality output. With Project Management skills, the quality and consistency of the project segments are screened, tested and evaluated for quality assurance. A Project Manager is trained in risk management. The anticipated risk factors are analyzed to find a resolution that would not lose focus on the project deliverables and timelines. They will be ready with alternative plans in the event of any such eventuality. There have been situations that in spite of proper planning, things go wrong, and people tend to take a reactive approach compromising on quality, cost, time and resources. A Project Manager knows his team members and through effective communication, they are able to bridge the gaps as they know the tasks given to each member of the team, their deadlines and resources allocated to each of them. They constantly monitor the progress to ensure the project is on track. Without a systematic proactive approach to Project Management, companies and clients take the risk of project delays or failure, lack of people management, wastage of resources and overall unpleasant experiences. A project needs to be monitored regularly to ensure tasks are completed on time and eventualities are addressed effectively. Project Managers review the project at every stage. It is like a diagnostic tool to take corrective action as and when required instead of waiting till the end and doing a post-mortem. They provide regular status reports with details of tasks completed, work in progress, time spent, resources utilized and so on. These reports are evaluated by the teams as well as the stakeholders, which helps in patching the differences in any and ensuring work flows smoothly. Project Management enriches your experience with each project based on its success and shortfalls. After the completion of each project, Project Managers look back to analyze and review the aspects that went well and the challenges they faced in order to find ways of implementing a different approach to the next project. Each project cycle gets documented, which is a rich source of information for reference to other Project Managers. Project Management strategies drive organizational success. Project Managers invest in time, project planning and due diligence contributing to the success of the business in the larger context. They conduct frequent reviews, risk assessment, measure success and ensure qualitative output. Organizations must define ROI, manage what’s measured, use analytical tools to align projects with strategy and implement strong project management practices that will determine the growth of the organization. In order to understand how project, program and portfolio work together in Project Management, let’s first look at how Project, Program and Portfolio are defined. These are the three Ps of Project Management. Projects form a part of the larger program and programs outline portfolios. Even though the three Ps are linked and sound similar in meaning, the functions associated with each of these are different in terms of Project Management. Let’s understand each of them separately. A project is a provisional undertaking with a well-defined beginning and end that is aimed at creating a product, service or an outcome. Various aspects of the project such as scope, cost estimate, time, risks and resources are managed effectively to achieve the chosen objective. What is a Program in the scope of Project Management? In most cases a group of projects is managed in a compatible manner to achieve the envisioned goal. Such a collection or a group of projects is termed as a Program in Project Management. Therefore, when the collective projects are completed, the program is complete. In Project Management, the projects are coordinated collectively that may have the same goal with some inter-dependencies. Program Management is explained in the PMBOK ® Guide by Project Management Institute (PMI) ® as, “The application of knowledge and skills to achieve program objectives and to obtain benefits and control not available by managing related program components individually.” A set of projects and programs that are managed as a group to achieve a strategic objective make a portfolio in Project Management terms. For example, all the projects, programs and operational work within an organization may comprise of a portfolio. There could be many such portfolios within an organization. Portfolios are used to accomplish business objectives in an organization, such as increasing sales, reducing costs, maximizing profits, launching a new marketing campaign and so on. A collective analysis of Project, Program and Portfolio Management Project, Program and Portfolio are different from each other and still interdependent as they work towards a common goal. Organizations can ensure that projects align with their business strategies using portfolio management techniques. This gives clarity on why a particular work is being done. In order to have an effective project and program management, it is imperative that plans are factual, and communication is precise in order to take appropriate decisions within the portfolio.
