UX series A new headphones series borne out of new approaches to achieve the superb sound quality with state-of- the art technologies and features. DX series A groundbreaking headphone series built around newly developed, next-generation dynamic drivers. Accessories Accessories that are not just add-ons, but are crafted as "products" in their own right. A series Design born from new research results about impulse response. Product series that exhibits new sound quality evaluation criteria. VR series A series borne out of new research results for the reproduction of binaural sound used for game and virtual reality content which more accurately reproduces the sense of sound direction. D series A new series of products that employs original technology that could be considered a reinvention of planar magnetic models - AFDS (Air Film Damping System) B series Each of the latest research results productized into an engineer driven new series. ZE series A new classic audiophile-grade truly wireless earbuds with its sound designed based on the latest research results in acoustic engineering and psychoacoustics. MAKE series We want you to discover "your own sound". A product line that proposes a new rationale for earphones. E series Sound quality design based on the latest acoustic engineering and psychological research results. We aimed for a product series where the products chosen would undoubtedly be referred to as standards for years to come. F Series This series satisfies all of the elements demanded of sound quality and usability to a high degree, and is one we have every confidence in. SONOROUS Series Headphones that reproduce the realism of vocals and instruments reverberating in a space. Heaven Series Earphones that aim for the creation of music that gives you a high when you listen to it. FI-BA-SS Series This flagship model with its balanced armature driver pursues ideal sound, eliminating compromise. LAB Series A series that has "creating something never seen before" as its concept. Piano Forte Series Dynamic driver earphones that value acoustic resonance. Collaboration series A product series that expresses a world view characteristic of this collaboration.
