Project Management Transform Your Career: Gain the practical skills to lead projects and succeed in any industry. About the Project Management Program Advance your career and gain in-demand project management skills with the Professional Certificate in Project Management from UC San Diego Extended Studies. This program is designed for anyone in any industry who wants to strengthen leadership, planning, and communication skills while learning to manage projects effectively from start to finish. With flexible learning, expert instructors, and a curriculum aligned with industry standards, you will gain the knowledge and confidence to lead successful projects in any industry regardless of project complexity. Enrollment Now Open for Winter 2026 · Start Your Certificate Today Who Should Enroll This program is designed for: Those new to the field with no prior project management experience who want to start their career Career changers ready to enter the project management field Mid-career professionals looking to move into or advance within project management Individuals preparing for the PMP Certification; who need required education hours Professionals in technology, healthcare, construction, finance, and other industries who manage projects Managers, team leads, and business owners seeking to strengthen leadership and project execution skills How to Enroll Enrollment Steps Certificate Course Requirements Project Management Foundational Course - Select One Required Courses Completion of foundational course prior to participation in BUSA-40715 and BUSA-40970 is required. Choose Any Elective Courses Below to Reach a Minimum of 4 Units Process Improvement Elective Options Earn an additional credential in Lean Six Sigma and satisfy the elective requirement for the PM program. Free Workshops and Sessions Student Resources & Benefits Veterans Education Benefits The Project Management Certificate program is approved for Veterans' funding. Eligible students may apply VA Education Benefits through UC San Diego Extended Studies. For assistance with applying your benefits to this program, please visit the Veteran Benefits office or contact us at unex-veterans@ucsd.edu. Workforce Funding Assistance UC San Diego Extended Studies is proud to be an approved training provider for the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA). If you're a displaced or disadvantaged worker, you may qualify for federal assistance to help fund your education. To explore available funding and determine your eligibility, please reach out to one of the following: San Diego Workforce Partnership - workforce.org/career-centers EDD - www.edd.ca.gov Once you're approved, we're here to help finalize your paperwork, email unex-workforce@ucsd.edu, and we’ll guide you through the next steps. International Programs International students are welcome to enhance their academic experience by enrolling in Project Management courses at UC San Diego Extended Studies. For application details and eligibility requirements, please visit the International Programs website or contact ipinfo@ucsd.edu . For questions related to visa requirements or program options, the International Programs team is available to provide guidance and support. UC San Diego Staff UC San Diego employees, faculty, and their spouses or domestic partners are eligible for a 10% discount on most UC San Diego Extended Studies courses, including professional development, career training, and personal enrichment programs. For full details on this discount, visit the UC San Diego Blink – Extended Studies Discount page. Employees may also access additional educational benefits through the university’s Educational Benefits (EdBen) system, which supports funding learning opportunities. When submitting a request, select “Extended Studies Course” and indicate whether department funds will be used. For general information on education benefits and eligibility, visit the UC San Diego Blink Education Benefits page or contact Staff Learning and Development . Course Waivers and Transfers Students may request to transfer coursework completed outside of UC San Diego Extended Studies, substitute a course taken within Extended Studies, waive a prerequisite course based on professional experience, or request an extension to the 21-quarter time limit for completing the certificate. To submit a request or access the appropriate forms, or if you’d like to review the steps and confirm whether a course can be transferred or waived based on your experience, please contact Tara Amin, Program Manager, at projectmanagement@ucsd.edu. Visit The Virtual Career Hub Today To Unlock Your Benefits! FAQs For information about the PMP Certification, only proctored through PMI, please visit their website: http://www.pmi.org/certification/project-management-professional-pmp.aspx Representing mastery of an established body of knowledge as is necessary to succeed in a field of professional practice Material presented by multiple instructors, representing multiple viewpoints and a breadth of issues and practices Curriculum reflecting timely changes in the field of study; complementing prior or simultaneous degree study in the field Meeting a minimum of 120 classroom instruction hours (the Project Management certificate provides 180 classroom instruction hours) An award of a gold seal “full-size” certificate document upon successful completion UC San Diego Division of Extended Studies—like all other UC San Diego schools, colleges and departments—is accredited by WASC through the University. All courses and certificate programs offered by UC San Diego Division of Extended Studies have been developed and administered in accordance with Extension policy and the regulations of the Academic Senate of the University of California. In your MyExtension account, click on “My Courses.” On the right side of the page under “My Certificates,” click on the name of the certificate. On the right side of the page under “Tools,” click on “Request Certificate Audit.” Complete and submit the form that appears. When registering, students may choose between a Letter Grade or Pass/No Pass option. As long as a student receives a passing score (70% or higher), they will earn the same certificate of completion and any related documents, regardless of the grading method selected. If you're pursuing employer reimbursement , we recommend checking with your company to confirm whether a Letter Grade is required for reimbursement eligibility. Students can update their grading option via their MyExtension student portal anytime before 12:00 a.m. on the final class meeting .
