CONTACT INFO OUR ADDRESS 611 Leigh Drive, Columbus, MS 39705 WHERE WE ARE LOCATED Columbus Bright Smiles 611 Leigh Drive Columbus, MS 39705 662-328-1825 WHERE WE ARE LOCATED SERVICES WHAT OUR PATIENTS ARE SAYING "My first time visiting Bright Smiles Dental and it was a great experience very family oriented. The people that work in the front they are very nice and professional. The the nurse practitioner and the doctors in the back do great work I look forward to my future visits 😁😊" Ronald Dicaprio "My daughter drives almost 3 hours away just to see Dr. Fincher and it's worth it! Dr. Fincher and Hilery are amazing. She says the whole office staff are really kind and friendly which is a plus. Dr. Fincher really knows his stuff, some of the experiences that she's had in the past is the reason why she has no problem traveling so far just to see him. She says she wishes she would have found him sooner!" Wanda Doby "Staff was very nice. Dr. Hynum was very thorough and patient during an intense 3 hour root canal procedure." Ken Holder "My visit was great. Everyone as always was extremely nice and helpful. They make each visit as pleasant of an experience as you could possibly expect. They are 10 out of 10." Daniel Wiggins "Dr.Lane is amazing and a patient dentist. The staff are friendly and knowledgeable. I will recommend Bright Smiles." Karen Blunt "Chasity is the greatest Hygienist. Not only is she very knowledgeable but she was patient and made adjustments according to my level of pain. I know most ppl pick dentist office based on the dentist but Bright Smiles has the GREATEST HYGIENIST." Bruce Williams "They were AMAZING and friendly. Miranda is who serviced me and was above & beyond !" Jakiya Lewis "Dr. Todd Fincher and his team are amazing! They care for details like none other. A visit to Bright Smiles is always a pleasant experience." Barbara Vanlandingham "I absolutely love going here! The staff is so friendly and very attentive. I highly recommend!" Quadra Townsend "It is the start of a great experience for me. Work that’s long overdue and I wouldn’t change anything about today’s experience. The dentist was very kind & staff were excellent! I encourage you to call today 😄" Odessa Williams "This is the best dentist I've ever had to go to! When you walk in it's totally different than any other. It is warm and inviting first thing I smelled walking in was coffee! Everyone was so polite and helpful I differently will recomend this office" Patricia Wheeler "By far the best, most compassionate, and pain-free dental experience I've ever had. From the moment you walk through the door, they take the time to address any concerns and alleviate any anxiety. If you are looking for a dentist or want a dental team that will actually listen to you, Bright Smiles is the best choice." Rich Sobolewski "I really enjoyed this dentist's office they were very polite courteous and expedient and I didn't have to wait all day or be in the chair for hours thank you very much I would recommend this office everyone five stars in my book God bless" Melvin Jackson "Dr. Emma and miss McKenzie are a good team, informative, experienced, knowledgeable. Miss Jasmine in the front office is polite, as well as informative, with following up for future appointments" John Rodgers "It was a great first visit at Bright Smiles. Dr. Chance and Katie made me feel welcomed. I am looking forward to come back." Ramona _S. "Very friendly made me feel very comfortable that a great job thank you." Desirae Putnam "Excellent staff took care of my problem and presented me with options, best dental clinic I’ve ever been associated with." Larry Slaughter "Blown away by my first visit at Bright Smiles. I was immediately checked in. Then, greeted with a well decorated, clean and cozy waiting area with a chair so comfortable i had to text my husband about it. The hygienist, Dana was so sweet, personable, and had me laughing! She said my teeth looked great and I’m doing a good job, which officially makes me an adult, right? Dr. Chance is very nice as well and I was sent home with a goody bag. Does it get any better than that?!" Jeanna Espinoza WHO WE ARE At Bright Smiles Dental, the exceptional care we provide is guided by remarkable dentists: Dr. Todd Wallace Fincher, DDS, Dr. Emma Satava, DDS, Dr. Lane Hynum, DMD and Dr. Bradley Stokes, DMD. With their combined expertise and commitment, we ensure that every patient’s needs are at the center of our efforts. Our vision is to deliver consistently compassionate care that not only emphasizes the well-being and joy of our patients but also fosters a harmonious, motivated atmosphere for our dedicated team. Putting patient care above all else, Bright Smiles Dental tirelessly pursues the latest in groundbreaking technology, comprehensive team training, and a comprehensive range of services. Conveniently situated in the heart of Columbus on Leigh Drive, our facility has been thoughtfully upgraded to feature cutting-edge dental technology, ensuring that your experience is nothing short of top-of-the-line. YOUR TEAM Todd Wallace Fincher, DDS Doctor of Dental Surgery Emma Satava, DDS Doctor of Dental Surgery Lane Hynum, DMD Doctor of Medicine in Dentistry Bradley Stokes, DMD Doctor of Medicine in Dentistry Miranda Frasher, RDH Registered Dental Hygienist Natalie Read, RDH Registered Dental Hygienist Chastity Martin, RDH Registered Dental Hygienist Robin Israel Dental Assistant Anastacia Doughty Dental Assistant Kayla Lancaster Dental Assistant Shakya Valentine Dental Assistant Tamyiah Logan Dental Assistant LeeAnn Hall Business Manager Katie Cooper Patient Care Coordinator Jasmine Jones Front Desk Coordinator Shay Buckley Schedule Coordinator Shaqueena Davis Schedule Coordinator Victoria Chain Front Desk Coordinator Ask us about Affordable Dental Care Financing Life Dental offers dental care maintenance and financial plans at a variety of monthly payment levels. With these flexible options and savings at 15%, 20% and 100%, quality dental care is both attainable and affordable at all our locations. WE WORK WITH ALMOST ALL MAJOR INSURANCE COMPANIES. BLOGS OUR TECHNOLOGY We require all team members to remain symptom free or they do not come to the office. Covid-19 Alert For your safety we are honoring OSHA and state or local mask mandates. However, you are always welcome to wear a mask while inside the office. We always provide anti-bacterial soap & hand sanitizer in all treatment suites & restrooms. Also notice the hand washing instructions in every room. Safety Protocols We are following strict personal protective equipment (PPE) protocols during all exams & procedures. Our team is spore testing our sterilization equipment weekly. Our results meet or exceed OSHA standards. Covid-19 Alert For your safety we are honoring OSHA and state or local mask mandates. However, you are always welcome to wear a mask while inside the office. We always provide anti-bacterial soap & hand sanitizer in all treatment suites & restrooms. Also notice the hand washing instructions in every room. We require all team members to remain symptom free or they do not come to the office. Safety Protocols We are following strict personal protective equipment (PPE) protocols during all exams & procedures. Our team is spore testing our sterilization equipment weekly. Our results meet or exceed OSHA standards.
