Golden Triangle Periodontal Center in Columbus, MS Ste 3 Columbus, MS 39705 Bringing Comprehensive Dentistry to Columbus Our office in Columbus offers a full range of dental treatments aimed at improving the health and appearance of your smile. Thanks to state-of-the-art tools and techniques in general, restorative, and cosmetic dentistry, Dr. John W. Starr, Jr. can provide new patients and returning patients with some of the best care in the state of Mississippi. Our Columbus Office Makes Patients Feel Welcome "Very professional and super nice staff. I really thought I was too far gone with my teeth, gum disease, and bone loss. I decided I would just go see if Dr. Starr could help me and I am so glad I did... It was the best thing I ever done." - Michael T. Merchant We Put Our Patients' Needs First "Dr. Starr is an outstanding surgeon, and the staff are always friendly and professional." Andrea Karen Persons Meet Dr. John W. Starr, Jr. Dr. John W. Starr opened his own general dental practice in 1984. Two years into being a dentist, he realized he wanted to expand his knowledge as a dental professional to better serve his patients. This led to Dr. Starr studying periodontics at the University of Alabama in Birmingham. After completing his studies in periodontics in 1988, Dr. Starr opened Golden Triangle Periodontal Center. Dr. Starr grew up in the state of Mississippi. He is passionate about helping people in Lowndes, Clay, and Oktibbeha Counties feel healthy and confident about the state of their dental health. Memberships and Affiliations Featured Services at Our Columbus Office LANAP Laser-Assisted New Attachment Procedure (LANAP) is a cutting-edge option for treating gum disease without invasive oral surgery. Using a safe dental laser, Dr. Starr can remove diseased soft tissue while leaving healthy gum tissue intact. It's an effective option for enhancing a patient's dental wellness and overall health. Gum Contouring If you have a gummy smile or other issues that affect your gumline, Dr. Starr can perform state-of-the-art gum contouring. This cosmetic dentistry procedure involves the removal of excess gum tissue. Dr. Starr takes great care in safely reshaping the gumline, which is informed by his advanced training in periodontics. Dental Implants Dental implants are a popular option for treating tooth loss. The dental implant is inserted into the jawbone and serves as an artificial tooth root that anchors a crown, bridge, or denture. There are no dental adhesives necessary for implants to support a restoration. Dr. Starr has placed thousands of implants during his career. Sedation Dentistry Thanks to sedation methods, Golden Triangle Periodontal Center can help patients who experience dental phobia, extreme tooth sensitivity, and other issues. By using laughing gas, oral sedatives, and even IV sedation, we can put you in a fully relaxed state that allows you to safely and comfortably get the dental care you need. Our Complete Services Dental Procedures Bone Graft Braces Bruxism Treatment Cleanings and Exams Crown Lengthening Dental Implants All-on-4 Dental Implants Dental Sealants Fluoride Treatments Frenectomy Full Mouth Reconstruction Gingivectomy Gum Contouring Inlays and Onlays LANAP Ridge Augmentation Sedation Dentistry Sinus Lift Smile Makeover Tooth Extraction Wisdom Teeth Removal Dental Conditions We Treat Bad Breath Swollen and Bleeding Gums Bone Loss in Jaw Cavities Cleft Lip and Palate Cracked Teeth Crooked Teeth Dry Mouth Gap Teeth Gingivitis Gum Disease Gummy Smile Impacted Canine Tooth Impacted Wisdom Teeth Infected Gum Pockets Jaw Pain Loose Tooth Missing Teeth Overbite Sensitive Teeth Sleep Apnea Stained Teeth Teeth Grinding Our Other Location In addition to our Columbus dentist's office, Golden Triangle Periodontal Center also operates out of another office located 25 miles west in Starkville. Starkville Office 974 MS-12 E Starkville, MS 39759 (662) 323-7066
