I really wanted to love Rust but that thing about how everyone uses anyhow to do basic error handling was such a turnoff for me. Is it really the idiomatic thing to use a third-party dependency to handle errors? I've never tried anyhow and haven't had a problem using the built in error stuff in rust, but sometimes a library gets popular and that can be ok? I actually think Rust does error handling pretty well. Errors are just (one constructor of) an algebraic datatype, and the language has ? + enough built-ins to make short-circuiting and error-handling ergonomic while reaping the benefits of having your errors just be data. (Some) people laud Go for making errors values, and Rust's treatment is in my opinion strictly better (but I've basically never written Go). Unfortunately the type system is rigid in a way that makes it not ergonomic to "compose" multiple error types*, e.g. if you wanted to call a function which errors with FooError and then a function which errors with a BarError . This is where I have found anyhow to be useful. But most of the code I write has just a single error type or I just brazenly put .unwrap() etc. in fallible functions (I mean yes, your file read could fail, but I am cool with my function just crashing with the file read error in that case; I do not write Professional Rust!). Rust makes a lot more choices explicit compared to other programming languages, so don't be afraid to put .unwrap() or .clone() or whatever in your code to get it to work, especially at a first pass. You don't have to have perfectly "clean" and "Rusty" code, whatever that means. * I did some digging and this also happens in Haskell too; again I don't write good code, so of course never ran into these issues myself I really love Rust’s un opinionated take on error handling. It has let the ecosystem thrive by letting people explore the space of possible error handling solutions. Of which there have been… quite a few. Thiserror, anyhow, eyre, color-eyre, tracing-error, error-chain, failure, just to name a couple. Each of these libraries has brought good ideas: thiserror for lightweight, specific errors; anyhow for easy catch-all and contexts; eyre for stack trace filtering, color-eyre for coloured output, tracing-error for spantrace (vs. stacktrace) errors, etc. What’s unfortunate in all of this is: My dream is for an error library to seamlessly merge all these approaches (without falling to the XKCD “N => N+1 universal formats” problem), and then on top of that add the brilliant (if underappreciated) approach from the komora-io/terrors library. That library abuses the Rust type system to twist it into providing ergonomic error handling without loss of specificity. For example, letting you declare that a function returns io::Error + OtherError without having to define a new sum type. Then the caller can handle just one of the errors and itself return the remaining one. I believe it provides the ergonomics we are missing in Rust. I believe anyhow's value-add is context which is always ferociously hard in error handling situations I believe it is Rust's answer to fmt.Errorf("I was trying to ... when %w", err) producing the much nicer I was trying to ... when stat config.ini no such file or directory Having written out this comment, maybe your observation is that Golang ships with fmt.Errorf and Rust makes one pull in a random dep from crates? If so, I'm firmly in your camp because I'd much rather be stranded on a dessert island with the Golang standard library than to have to contact crates to have access to regex functions in 2025. But, I guess the Rust folks follow C's mental model of "you get nothing , good day, sir" I don't know Go, but why couldn't you just do Err(format!("I was trying to ... when {}", err)) // type Result<T, String> Is the Error type in Go something more sophisticated than String ? Anyhow, I'm not a Rust expert but when I've seen anyhow used in codebases I've worked on, it was for dealing with cases where there is no singular error type for e.g. a function. fn example() -> anyhow::Result<()> { std::fs::read(...)?; // Result<_, std::fs::Error> my_fallible()?; // Result<_, MyError> } But maybe that is overkill and Box<dyn std::error::Error> works just as fine, as mentioned in their docs. I haven't tried it personally (it seems like it would be annoying to have to add the wrappers). It is. The %w preserves the other error type so you can use 'errors.Is()' on it. https://pkg.go.dev/errors#Is My perception is that Rust tries to minimize the standard library- they only put there things that would be a problem if they were outside the standard library. There are simple error handling patterns for applications, such as boxing errors that require no third-party library, or just even choosing to panic on errors (which IMHO is fine for a lot of programs!). Anyhow adds opinionated error handling for programs; opinionated meaning that it's a matter of taste- and a lot of people happen to like it! So although you don't really need libraries to do proper error handling, you can use a library for extra functionality. (The two main error libraries, Anyhow and thiserror do not appear in your public API; Anyhow because it's not meant to be used in things that provide a public API, and thiserror, which is intended for things that provide a public API, deliberately avoids it. So actually, people using those error libraries do not "force" anyone to use them- which IMHO means it is correct for nothing like them to be in the standard library.) My perception is that Rust tries to minimize the standard library- they only put there things that would be a problem if they were outside the standard library. I have an awful time using anything but the most mainstream of crates though. But I guess it's fair because the solution space that Rust has to cover is much wider so it doesn't make sense to ship with too many assumptions in the stdlib. Well, they already make some allowances with core < alloc < std . All three of them could be smaller, however, I don't think you could remove things from them without causing issues. My uneducated perception is that, for example Vec doesn't really need to be in the standard library. However, many libraries use Vec in their APIs, so if there was no standard library Vec , you'd likely have the fun of having to deal with multiple independent implementations in your code. You might already know https://blessed.rs/crates; it's my first stop when I need a crate. Normally what I find there is usable enough (in relation to the complexity of what you want to do with it- macro helpers are never really going to be "easy", I guess). for example Vec doesn't really need to be in the standard library Maybe that's true but it would be jarring similar like how Gleam doesn't ship with file IO. blessed I forget about it, but yes, that is an essential resource if you want to maintain a small stdlib. macro helpers It is my opinion that macros are bad bad bad. This is what the answer was when I asked about it: https://lobste.rs/s/irzh59/why_i_don_t_love_rust_either_2021#c_qllhll I still think it's bad and anyhow is poorly documented. The argument that it not being in included could generate better things hasn't really paid off until I recently saw this which I'm eager to try out (really, anything rather than anyhow): https://github.com/shepmaster/snafu I think what you're missing is that the recommendation is Anyhow and thiserror! Snafu looks closer to thiserror. Anyhow is for applications, thiserror is for libraries. (And in many cases, an application is an application and a library!) Anyhow and thiserror Even worse! Notably this later on talks about downsides and recommendations to remove those in the future. My experience with writing Rust software tends to be once you've got it working, it stays working. Somehow, this phrase made me giggle. I'm really rolling the dice weighing into this thread, especially with this observation, but I mean it sincerely so here we go: Finally, one of Rust's most important virtues is its extensibility I detest with all my heart languages that secretly import symbols, and have avoided Scala for decades because of that nonsense. I recently learned that Rust seems to subscribe to this behavior, too // use hmac::Mac; fn example() { let hmac_key = [0u8; 32]; hmac::Hmac::<sha2::Sha256>::new_from_slice(&hmac_key).expect("bogus hmac init"); } does not compile, citing no such symbol new_from_slice but uncomment that use statement, observe that the symbol Mac doesn't appear a single time in that fn and be sad Isn't that because new_from_slice is a trait implementation? So once you import Mac you can access the trait implementations and therefore the new_from_slice function? Yes. It is, in fact, not secretly importing the trait for you. You have to do that on your own, or it's not available. "if it compiles, it works" Yeah, good luck getting anything non-trivial to compile. I usually have to go into a project's Discord to figure out compile errors that the LLM can't help me with. Sounds more like an indictment of the LLM than of Rust... I really wanted to love Rust but that thing about how everyone uses anyhow to do basic error handling was such a turnoff for me. Is it really the idiomatic thing to use a third-party dependency to handle errors? I've never tried anyhow and haven't had a problem using the built in error stuff in rust, but sometimes a library gets popular and that can be ok? I actually think Rust does error handling pretty well. Errors are just (one constructor of) an algebraic datatype, and the language has ? + enough built-ins to make short-circuiting and error-handling ergonomic while reaping the benefits of having your errors just be data. (Some) people laud Go for making errors values, and Rust's treatment is in my opinion strictly better (but I've basically never written Go). Unfortunately the type system is rigid in a way that makes it not ergonomic to "compose" multiple error types*, e.g. if you wanted to call a function which errors with FooError and then a function which errors with a BarError . This is where I have found anyhow to be useful. But most of the code I write has just a single error type or I just brazenly put .unwrap() etc. in fallible functions (I mean yes, your file read could fail, but I am cool with my function just crashing with the file read error in that case; I do not write Professional Rust!). Rust makes a lot more choices explicit compared to other programming languages, so don't be afraid to put .unwrap() or .clone() or whatever in your code to get it to work, especially at a first pass. You don't have to have perfectly "clean" and "Rusty" code, whatever that means. * I did some digging and this also happens in Haskell too; again I don't write good code, so of course never ran into these issues myself I really love Rust’s un opinionated take on error handling. It has let the ecosystem thrive by letting people explore the space of possible error handling solutions. Of which there have been… quite a few. Thiserror, anyhow, eyre, color-eyre, tracing-error, error-chain, failure, just to name a couple. Each of these libraries has brought good ideas: thiserror for lightweight, specific errors; anyhow for easy catch-all and contexts; eyre for stack trace filtering, color-eyre for coloured output, tracing-error for spantrace (vs. stacktrace) errors, etc. What’s unfortunate in all of this is: My dream is for an error library to seamlessly merge all these approaches (without falling to the XKCD “N => N+1 universal formats” problem), and then on top of that add the brilliant (if underappreciated) approach from the komora-io/terrors library. That library abuses the Rust type system to twist it into providing ergonomic error handling without loss of specificity. For example, letting you declare that a function returns io::Error + OtherError without having to define a new sum type. Then the caller can handle just one of the errors and itself return the remaining one. I believe it provides the ergonomics we are missing in Rust. I believe anyhow's value-add is context which is always ferociously hard in error handling situations I believe it is Rust's answer to fmt.Errorf("I was trying to ... when %w", err) producing the much nicer I was trying to ... when stat config.ini no such file or directory Having written out this comment, maybe your observation is that Golang ships with fmt.Errorf and Rust makes one pull in a random dep from crates? If so, I'm firmly in your camp because I'd much rather be stranded on a dessert island with the Golang standard library than to have to contact crates to have access to regex functions in 2025. But, I guess the Rust folks follow C's mental model of "you get nothing , good day, sir" I don't know Go, but why couldn't you just do Err(format!("I was trying to ... when {}", err)) // type Result<T, String> Is the Error type in Go something more sophisticated than String ? Anyhow, I'm not a Rust expert but when I've seen anyhow used in codebases I've worked on, it was for dealing with cases where there is no singular error type for e.g. a function. fn example() -> anyhow::Result<()> { std::fs::read(...)?; // Result<_, std::fs::Error> my_fallible()?; // Result<_, MyError> } But maybe that is overkill and Box<dyn std::error::Error> works just as fine, as mentioned in their docs. I haven't tried it personally (it seems like it would be annoying to have to add the wrappers). It is. The %w preserves the other error type so you can use 'errors.Is()' on it. https://pkg.go.dev/errors#Is My perception is that Rust tries to minimize the standard library- they only put there things that would be a problem if they were outside the standard library. There are simple error handling patterns for applications, such as boxing errors that require no third-party library, or just even choosing to panic on errors (which IMHO is fine for a lot of programs!). Anyhow adds opinionated error handling for programs; opinionated meaning that it's a matter of taste- and a lot of people happen to like it! So although you don't really need libraries to do proper error handling, you can use a library for extra functionality. (The two main error libraries, Anyhow and thiserror do not appear in your public API; Anyhow because it's not meant to be used in things that provide a public API, and thiserror, which is intended for things that provide a public API, deliberately avoids it. So actually, people using those error libraries do not "force" anyone to use them- which IMHO means it is correct for nothing like them to be in the standard library.) My perception is that Rust tries to minimize the standard library- they only put there things that would be a problem if they were outside the standard library. I have an awful time using anything but the most mainstream of crates though. But I guess it's fair because the solution space that Rust has to cover is much wider so it doesn't make sense to ship with too many assumptions in the stdlib. Well, they already make some allowances with core < alloc < std . All three of them could be smaller, however, I don't think you could remove things from them without causing issues. My uneducated perception is that, for example Vec doesn't really need to be in the standard library. However, many libraries use Vec in their APIs, so if there was no standard library Vec , you'd likely have the fun of having to deal with multiple independent implementations in your code. You might already know https://blessed.rs/crates; it's my first stop when I need a crate. Normally what I find there is usable enough (in relation to the complexity of what you want to do with it- macro helpers are never really going to be "easy", I guess). for example Vec doesn't really need to be in the standard library Maybe that's true but it would be jarring similar like how Gleam doesn't ship with file IO. blessed I forget about it, but yes, that is an essential resource if you want to maintain a small stdlib. macro helpers It is my opinion that macros are bad bad bad. This is what the answer was when I asked about it: https://lobste.rs/s/irzh59/why_i_don_t_love_rust_either_2021#c_qllhll I still think it's bad and anyhow is poorly documented. The argument that it not being in included could generate better things hasn't really paid off until I recently saw this which I'm eager to try out (really, anything rather than anyhow): https://github.com/shepmaster/snafu I think what you're missing is that the recommendation is Anyhow and thiserror! Snafu looks closer to thiserror. Anyhow is for applications, thiserror is for libraries. (And in many cases, an application is an application and a library!) Anyhow and thiserror Even worse! Notably this later on talks about downsides and recommendations to remove those in the future. My experience with writing Rust software tends to be once you've got it working, it stays working. Somehow, this phrase made me giggle. I'm really rolling the dice weighing into this thread, especially with this observation, but I mean it sincerely so here we go: Finally, one of Rust's most important virtues is its extensibility I detest with all my heart languages that secretly import symbols, and have avoided Scala for decades because of that nonsense. I recently learned that Rust seems to subscribe to this behavior, too // use hmac::Mac; fn example() { let hmac_key = [0u8; 32]; hmac::Hmac::<sha2::Sha256>::new_from_slice(&hmac_key).expect("bogus hmac init"); } does not compile, citing no such symbol new_from_slice but uncomment that use statement, observe that the symbol Mac doesn't appear a single time in that fn and be sad Isn't that because new_from_slice is a trait implementation? So once you import Mac you can access the trait implementations and therefore the new_from_slice function? Yes. It is, in fact, not secretly importing the trait for you. You have to do that on your own, or it's not available. "if it compiles, it works" Yeah, good luck getting anything non-trivial to compile. I usually have to go into a project's Discord to figure out compile errors that the LLM can't help me with. Sounds more like an indictment of the LLM than of Rust...
