I recently shot a roll of EASTMAN DOUBLE-X motion picture film. My developer scanned the images as 16bit greyscale TIFF files. The high bit rate was great for post processing. The downside is that Google Photos doesn’t support those TIFFs. I needed to convert them to PNG. I saw this as a chance to create a challenge for AI assisted coding. Instead of manually saving the photos as PNG, I decided to do the conversion using C++. TLDR; what could have been a dauting task took me only a day with AI. Installing the Dependency Packages Google AI mode steered me towards using libtiff and libpng. While libpng has a few pre-built binaries, libtiff comes only as source code. I brewed over if I should try to compile libtiff or just give up. After more help from Google AI mode I found out that both libraries can be installed as Debian packages. In the end this proved to be an easy and flawless option. AI also suggested that I install a few other commonly used dependencies like zlib1g-dev . Finally, this is what I did. sudo apt update sudo apt install build-essential sudo apt install libtiff-dev libwebp-dev libzstd-dev zlib1g-dev sudo apt install libpng-dev Code using these libraries can be compiled like this. g++ -o tiff-png main.cc -ltiff -lpng Proof of Concept I prompted Gemini 3 Thinking with: Generate C code that uses libtiff to open a tiff file and save it as PNG The generated code was fairly easy to understand and told me this is something I can deal with. Iteration 1 I started coding in VS Code with C++ extensions installed. I wasn’t logged into GitHub. So a default AI model was in use by the coding agent. The AI agent generated very similar code as Gemini with a similar prompt. The code compiled and worked fine. The converted PNG file looked great. Here’s Iteration 1. The VS Code generated code did one thing better than Gemini. Gemini was getting the TIFF pixel values using TIFFReadRGBAImage which gives us the rows from bottom to top. VS Code used TIFFReadRGBAImageOriented which gave us the rows from top to bottom. This made the code simpler. Iteration 2 As I compared the code generated in VS Code with Gemini, I realized that Gemini was writing PNG one row at a time using png_write_row . The VS Code generated code was accumulating the entire PNG in memory and then writing it to the file using png_write_image . Gemini code was simpler and needed less memory. I wanted to adopt that. Instead of manually making the changes I just asked VS Code to do it for me: Change the save_tiff_as_png function to use png_write_row to write row by row. This should simplify the code and reuse a single row memory buffer making the code more memory efficient. Here is Iteration 2. Iteration 3 I did a bunch of other changes, all manually, to clean up the code and process multiple TIFF files in one go. As I was about to declare victory a thought kept gnawing at me. Both Gemini and VS Code assumed the TIFF file to be 4 channel (RGBA) with 8bit per color channel. This didn’t quite sit right. Sure enough, the film developer gave me the TIFF files as single channel (greyscale) with 16bit per channel. The converted PNG was RGBA (even though it looked greyscale) and 8bit. What a bummer. I learned later that the functions of the ilk TIFFReadRGBAImageOriented normalize all image types as 8bit RGBA. This makes the code easy but you lose a lot of fidelity from the original TIFF. Anyway, I had to do something about this. I straight up asked Gemini: The code appears to be assuming 8bits per color channel and 4 channels (RGBA) to be always present in the TIFF file. Can these be made dynamic? Gemini now produced its masterpiece. The code now set the PNG header with the correct number of channels and bits per channel. TIFF image data was read row by row using TIFFReadScanline which did not do any normalization and gave you the raw pixel values. We wrote the PNG row by row using png_write_row , same as before. I took the Gemini generated code and manually adopted it in VS Code. The code compiled. But for the first time the converted PNG didn’t look right. I did old fashioned searches, read StackOverflow, asked AI mode. My gut told me this has something to do with the endianness. You see, when you deal with 16bit pixel values you need to worry about the endianness. I was just vibing with the endianness issue at this point. More research told me the full story. A TIFF file can be in either little or big endian form. The TIFFReadScanline function converts the pixel values to the machine’s native endianness. That will be little endian for me. The png_write_row function by default doesn’t convert the endianness and writes the data as is. This means, it was writing the pixels as little endian. This is a violation of the PNG spec which requires the pixels to be big endian. It turns out that we can make png_write_row swap the bytes before writing by calling png_set_swap . The Gemini generated code was already calling png_set_swap . Why wasn’t it working? There was a slight issue. The png_set_swap must be called after png_write_info . Gemini had the ordering wrong. I fixed the issue and got the PNG in its 16bit single channel greyscale glory. No more 8bit and no more 4 channels (RGBA). Here’s the final version. Conclusions I used a mix of agents; Gemini, VS Code and Google AI mode (for general research). For batting around an idea, I like using Gemini. When I know what I want I have VS Code agent do it for me. Sometimes, I manually incorporate Gemini’s code when it’s easy to do. AI helped me with the dependency setup. AI understood all my optimization attempts and kept refining the code. I was only vibing (doing things without understanding) with the endianness issue. Sure enough I got burned by that. I’m glad I did.
