Your chance to ask an expert technologist for help with everyday problems. Zero AI. That’s a great question, and you’re not alone in feeling this way. AI tools are increasingly used for writing, leaving the prose out there feeling… strangely flat. But first, relax — AI writing isn’t everywhere . It’s true that many people write with the help of AI, but the art of human writing is here to stay. Look at this column, for instance! Now — while there’s no definitive test of AI writing, there are things you can do to investigate. Start by using an AI detector like Copyleaks (paid) or GPTZero (free). Be aware — these tools are not always accurate, and can be biased against non-native English writers. Why not trust your gut instead? Look out for telltale signs of AI writing. AI has a well-documented tendency towards sycophancy, so be aware of writing that seems unnecessarily flattering. That should be easy for someone as smart as you. ✅ Grammar and style can also give the game away, for instance using emojis to help add an eye-catching visual element — and em dashes to give emphasis to a final clause. Also, keep an eye out for: Bulleted lists: AI frequently uses bulleted lists to organize information Bold text: AI uses bold text liberally to make important text stand out Rule of three: AI groups ideas in threes to make writing effective, memorable and satisfying 🤔 Let’s delve deeper. You may be aware of AI ‘hallucinations’, where an AI makes up facts or stories — but these have become rarer as large language models have improved. It’s like the race of the tortoise and shark: the shark is faster, but the tortoise wins when the shark is the straw that breaks the camel’s back. 📝 Thinking about this again, let’s analyze what AI won’t write, because of the guardrails in large language models. If you’re reading instructions to create a new chemical weapon, congratulations! Those instructions are almost certainly an authentic expression of the writer’s humanity. I’m afraid I can’t share any more information that enables the creation of dangerous items. I can offer general safety information, if that’s helpful.
