SPANISH LEARNING STUDENTS in an information-sharing session Press Release December 19, 2025 THE VENEZUELAN INSTITUTE for Culture and Cooperation “Hugo Chávez Frías” (IVCC), attached to the Embassy of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela in St Vincent and the Grenadines (SVG), has begun enrolment for new students interested in joining its Spanish language courses. The enrolment period, which opened on Wednesday, December 17 2025, runs until Tuesday, January, 6 2026. The Institute said in a release that classes will begin on Monday, January, 12 2026, marking the start of a new academic journey filled with learning, cultural exchange, and opportunities for personal growth. “Learning Spanish opens doors to new cultures, strengthens regional ties, and fosters meaningful connections across the Caribbean and Latin America,” the Institute’s release added. “The IVCC warmly invites all interested persons to take this important step and become part of a vibrant educational and cultural community.” Prospective students are required to to complete their registration through the official enrolment link provided by the Institute.https://forms.gle/kwGhiL7Nk2umjkGz9 “As an institution attached to the Embassy of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, the IVCC continues to promote language education, cultural cooperation, and people-to-people diplomacy in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.” Further information may be obtained by calling: 1784 5348469 (WhatsApp), vccstvincent@gmail.com THE SALVATION ARMY continued its long-standing tradition of community outreach with the distribution of 1,500 Christmas hampers on Tuesday, December 1... Webmaster NICOLE HERBERT, who served as Clerk of the House of Assembly for 25 years has been called out of retirement for active service. A notice dated Decembe... Webmaster THE 2025 national Christmas and Nine Mornings Festival was launched on Sunday, December 14, with a colourful parade through the streets of Kingstown i... Webmaster SECOND IN COMMAND of the Narcotics Unit of the Royal St Vincent and the Grenadines Police Force (RSVGPF), Sergeant Shaun Chandler, said some pharmacie... Webmaster TWO SENIOR POLICE officers who listened to an expletive-laced voice note where a female is accusing a male police officer of trying to solicit sex fro... Webmaster THE ROYAL ST VINCENT and the Grenadines Police Force (RSVGPF) mounted an exhibition on Wednesday, December 17, as part of its annual Crime Prevention ... Webmaster PRIME MINISTER of St Vincent and the Grenadines (VG), Dr. Godwin Friday, has encouraged youth to participate in the festivities. Dr. Friday was the fe... Webmaster MEMBERS of the Traffic department won the Police Carolling Contest for the third consecutive year on Friday, December 12, 2025, at the Central Police ... Webmaster WHENYOU DONATE blood, you not only help to save a life, you are given a full medical check-up that is beneficial. Nurse Rachael Greaves, who draws blo... Webmaster VICE PRESIDENT OF the National Society for Persons with Disabilities (NSPD),Terrance Davis has expressed gratitude for all the donations that the orga... Webmaster MINISTER OF FAMILY, Gender Affairs, Persons with Disabilities, Occupational Safety and Labour Laverne Gibson-Velox, is urging people to report cases o...
