This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Skip to Content This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. We are lucky; we can always add goodness to our gardens I had a wonderful vacation exploring part of Newfoundland in September. That trip had been on our bucket list for quite a while. My husband and I have an interesting dynamic when we travel. He works for a power company so is always looking up at power lines. I am always looking down at trees, shrubs, flowers and gardens. I now know why they call that part of Canada ‘The Rock’. The topsoil is very shallow and in most areas we visited, rock was more prevalent than ground. The result is a very different landscape than the one we are used to here in Algoma. I didn’t see a single oak tree or pine. Spruce, balsam, larch, poplar and birch are the native there. All are quite a bit shorter than we see here as they are blasted by so much wind. I didn’t see a lot of landscaping around houses or much in the way of annual planting until we hit the St. John’s area. However, I want to stress that I am in no way being critical. It was an extremely beautiful province to visit with a unique landscape that was fascinating. As a gardener though, the trip really made me appreciate the area where I live. I do have challenges with sand and extremely well drained soil. Many people in this area also deal with heavy clay. However both sandy and clay soil can be amended so that a wide variety of plants thrive. You can’t do much with solid rock. Every fall I make a point of enriching the soil in my vegetable garden once the harvest is complete. I add a generous amount of organic compost, turn it into open areas and top dress along my asparagus row. Then I add about one pound of lime per hundred square feet of garden area to counteract the acidity caused by falling oak leaves and pine needles. In my perennial gardens, I add compost each spring because I leave foliage to die down in fall, allowing it to collapse into the garden. I like the extra insulation it provides over the winter as well as the habitat it provides for native pollinating insects. Once snow melts in April, I clean up all the debris, add compost and plants are good to go. Amending your garden soil can be done either spring or fall. Just pick the time that suits your schedule and garden routine the best. If you are adding compost or topping up gardens with soil, be sure to be very careful around existing trees, shrubs and perennials. They aren’t too tolerant of soil being heaped up on trunks, stems or crowns. Moist soil or compost can rot bark and the crowns of perennial plants. Just a reminder not to add lime to plants you grow that thrive in acidic soil. (blueberries, rhododendrons, azaleas and hydrangea varieties that can have either pink or blue flowers depending on soil acidity) These plants would benefit from peat moss added to the garden around them or a top dressing of pine needles. Both will help keep the soil acidic. I often get calls in the fall about customers concerned that their pine tree is dying. A few questions asked determines that two year old needles are turning yellow and falling off. That is the normal cycle for all pines. If you happen to know someone with a pine tree in their yard and you need mulch for your acid loving plants, I’m sure they would be happy to have you come and take away all those needles. I certainly have an over abundance from the huge white pines in my side and back gardens. Susan Richards October 8, 2019 Column This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. How to transplant trees and shrubs I often get asked for advice about when and how to do transplanting. As with many gardening tasks, timing is everything. Small trees and shrubs can be moved once they are dormant in mid-fall or in early spring before new growth begins. When leaves begin to turn colour in fall, it’s a sign that the plants are shutting down for the winter and transplanting can be done. If you want to move a more established tree or shrub and are able to wait awhile, doing some root pruning first will increase your chance of success. Trace a circle in the soil as wide as you are able to dig. Divide the circle into four even quadrants. Take a sharp spade and slice down through the roots on two of the four quadrants that are opposite each other. Make note of where you have cut the roots. Next spring cut down and sever the roots in the last two areas. Then next fall you will be ready to move the plant. This method of root pruning forces the plant to develop new fibrous roots within the area you intend to dig. These roots will nourish the plant until it’s time to transplant. Also, the new roots will make the plant easier to move, as a firm root ball will be established. By doing half the roots at a time, there is less shock to the tree or shrub. Once you are ready to transplant, make sure the ground is moist before you start to dig. Then have the new planting hole prepared in advance, ensuring it is the same depth as the root ball you are digging. Be sure to have some compost and transplanting food on hand to mix with the existing soil at the new site. Plan to use 2/3 native soil amended with 1/3 compost or planting mix. When at all possible, dig the root ball as wide as the foliage extends out. Plants grown in clay-based soil will hold together well when dug. If you are moving a plant from a site with sandy, loose soil, have burlap on hand. Dig around the plant with a sharp spade, severing the roots cleanly. Slide the burlap under the root ball on one side. Have a helper tip the plant carefully in the opposite direction so you can push the burlap right under the root ball. Then tip the plant towards you so your helper can pull the burlap through to the other side. Pull the burlap up tight around the entire root ball so that you can move it without the soil collapsing and tearing the small feeding roots. Once you have moved the plant to its new home, work some transplanting fertilizer, such an s bone meal, into the bottom of the planting hole and set it into the ground at the same level that it was previously growing. Backfill one-third of the way up the root ball with prepared soil mixed with more bone meal and firm it well. Loosen the burlap from around the trunk and roll it right down, being sure that it’s all tucked below the soil line. There is no need to totally remove the burlap as it will disintegrate over time. At this point, water thoroughly. If the crown of the tree you have moved is well established, you may need to stake the tree for two seasons. Stake on either side of the trunk in line with the strongest winds in your area. Attach the trunk to the stake with a tree strap or a piece of wire or rope run through some garden hose. For smaller trees, you can also use a length of panty hose. It is very strong yet supple. Ensure that whatever you do use for tethering doesn’t rub bark off the trunk. Susan Richards September 17, 2019 Column This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
