We have all read about the health benefits that gardening can bring. It offers a grounding connection to nature, exposure to Vitamin D and is scientifically proven to help with stress and anxiety. Subscribe now for unlimited access. One local aged care facility is proving that age is no barrier when it comes to cultivating one of Kempsey's most impressive gardens. The Vincent Court Aged Care community is alive with colour and productivity, with flourishing flowers, thriving fruit trees and vegetable patches that are as practical as they are picturesque. From juicy tomatoes to leafy greens, the serene outdoor spaces are the result of dedication, teamwork, and a shared love of the land. Many residents are more than happy to roll up their sleeves, soak up the sunshine and get their hands dirty, reaping the physical and mental health benefits that come with time spent outdoors. For Vincent Court Manager Alan Petty, the recently installed vege pods represent far more than a visual upgrade. "It gives residents a real sense of pride and purpose," Mr Petty said. "They enjoy the outdoors, and it gives them independence and true satisfaction when they can literally see the fruits of their labour." The sense of fulfilment is deeply felt by resident Maureen Blair, whose passion for gardening is rooted in her childhood. The 76-year-old grew up on a vegetable farm, where hard work was part of her daily life. "As kids, we would farm before the sun came up, then we went to school, and by 4pm we were back in the garden with mum and dad," Mrs Blair said. After losing her husband Dennis 18 years ago, Maureen said she struggled with loneliness and depression, but moving to Vincent Court two years ago marked a turning point. "To me, it's my happy place. If something is troubling me, I head straight to the garden, and I know that will help clear my head, and it brings me great joy," she said. "I think of Dennis every minute of every day, and when I'm in the garden, I hear him telling me what to do, how to do it and whether I'm doing it right." Mrs Bair said the secret to a great garden mirrors that of a great marriage; it takes patience, tender love and care. Alongside Mrs Blair is fellow resident George Holden; the pair are regarded as the driving force behind the garden's success. Mr Holden brings a lifetime of gardening knowledge and a sharp sense of humour to the veggie patch. "I'm all about the veggies, you can't eat flowers," Mr Holden said. "But Maureen has the Midas touch when it comes to the rest." A former train driver, Mr Holden, is now confined to a wheelchair after losing his leg to diabetes 15 years ago, making traditional gardening difficult. The 89-year-old has found renewed joy through the raised vege pods, which are much more accessible. "I was over the moon when they said we were getting more pods; all my Christmases had come at once," he said. "Keeping your hands busy keeps you out of trouble. It's lovely showing off my work to children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren." Home to 84 residents, Vincent Court's gardens are enjoyed by everyone, whether they are planting seeds or simply admiring the results. The organic produce is grown and prepared under strict safety standards, enriching both plates and spirits. From little things, big things certainly do grow at Vincent Court.
