Tel: 07703 208604 Web: Address Unit 1 New Mill Industrial Estate, New Mills Road Lower New Mills Road Lower Coleraine County Londonderry BT53 2JR About David McIntyre Autobody Repair & Alloy Clinic Alloy Wheel Repair and Refurbishment We are one of Northern Ireland’s leading alloy wheel repair and alloy wheel refurbishment specialists. Alloy Clinic aims to deliver the highest quality and value for money. Cost effective repairs using quality and approved materials, we can equal manufacturer standards, enabling us to give you the highest quality available in re-manufactured alloy wheels. Our newly equipped facility in Coleraine provides us with the capability to offer alloy and diamond cut alloy wheel repair and refurbishment, powder coating and treatment of buckles and flat spots. Alloy Clinic provides you with the complete refurbishment package at the highest standards available. Alloy Wheel Repairs We offer a range of alloy wheel repair solutions: Rim repair Crack repair Scuff repair Buckle repair Scratch repair Corrosion repair Diamond cut alloy wheel repair Alloy Wheel Refurbishment We offer a range of alloy wheel refurbishment solutions: Restoring Reconditioning Powder coating Painting Spraying Colour change (over 10,000 colours to choose from) Diamond cut alloy wheel refurbishment Diamond Cut Alloy Wheels We offer a range of diamond cut alloy wheel refurbishment solutions: Rim repair Scuff repair Buckle repair Scratch repair Corrosion repair Our specialist technicians operate highly advanced CNC Diamond Cutting lathes that create a unique polished finish to alloy wheels. The Diamond Cutting Polished process enables Alloy Clinic to turn alloy wheels back to original manufactured standards or customise wheels to requirements. Auto Body Repairs David McIntyre Body Repairs are Coleraine’s premier accident repair specialists. From repairs to vehicle maintenance, our mechanics can help you with complete vehicle maintenance. Over the years, we have built an excellent reputation for providing vehicle repairs to both domestic and commercial clients across Londonderry. Our car repair services include: Car body repairs Alloy wheel repairs Accident repairs Bumper repairs Dent removals Paintwork repairs Vehicle servicing Car restorations Car Body Repairs As we are Coleraine’s local car body repair specialists, our team can handle all your car needs from a scratch on the bumper to heavy accident damage repairs. Our experienced team can restore your vehicle to optimal condition and get you back on the road in no time. We pride ourselves on providing prompt repair services. Our team has built an envious reputation across Northern Ireland for providing excellent car repair. So, why wait? Get in touch with our experienced team today. Alloy Wheel Repairs Our team offer a comprehensive service that caters to all kinds of alloy wheels, ensuring your wheels are shiny and in excellent condition. Our team specialises in the refurbishment and repair of alloy wheels, repairing and polishing all kinds of scuffs and scrapes. We use state-of-the-art technology to ensure a high quality finish and make sure we achieve the desired results are achieved. We will come and assess the damage to your wheels and give you an initial estimate. You can always rely on our experienced, reliable and professional technicians. All our work is guaranteed. Accident repairs Our highly skilled team will carry out a complete repair for a competitive price. If your car needs more than just a dent repair, our team will provide complete body repairs to your car after an accident. Whether it is a simple scratch or dent in the paintwork or a complete repair work, we can restore your car to its former glory. With over 30 years' combined experience our team offer excellent repairs at affordable prices. Contact us David McIntyre Autobody Repair & Alloy Clinic Gallery Location Map of David McIntyre Autobody Repair & Alloy Clinic Our first-class garage is ideally based in Newtownards and we welcome customers of the surrounding towns, cities and villages for your convenience. We provide our fantastic garage services to a wide range of clients from the general public to the larger more commercial sectors, with no job being too big or too small for us to handle. T: 028 9181 2460 | E: brianmartin3@hotmail.co.uk
