Braking & Traction 4-Wheel ABS Std 4-Wheel Disc Brakes Traction/Stability Control Tire Pressure Monitoring System Passenger Restraint Driver Air Bag Passenger Air Bag Side Air Bag Side Head Air Bag Rear Body Side Air Bag Opt Rear Head side Air Bag Road Visibility HID Headlights Daytime Running Lights Fog Lamps Electrochromic Rearview Mirror Intermittent Wipers Variable Inter. Wipers Rain Sensing Wipers Accident Prevention Rear Parking Aid Back-Up Camera Handsfree Wireless Security Alarm Anti-theft System Telematics Printable Version Original Warranty Original Warranty An original warranty is the warranty associated with a vehicle when it is brand new. In addition to the original warranty, select items, like tires, are typically covered by respective manufacturers. Also, an act of Federal law sometimes provides protection for certain components, like emissions equipment. The original warranty is often broken down into multiple sections, including: Basic Warranty: Typically covers everything except for parts that wear out through normal use of the vehicle. Examples of non-covered items are brake pads, wiper blades and filters. Drivetrain Warranty: This warranty covers items the basic warranty does not protect. Wear and tear items such as hoses will not be covered, but key items like the engine, transmission, drive axles and driveshaft often will be. Roadside Assistance: The level of service differs greatly with this warranty, but many manufacturers offer a toll-free number that helps provide assistance in case you run out of gas, get a flat tire or lock your keys in the car. Corrosion Warranty: This warranty focuses on protecting you from holes caused by rust or corrosion in your vehicle's sheet metal. Please check the owner's manual, visit a local dealership or look at the manufacturer's website to learn more about the specifics of the warranties that apply to a vehicle. Basic 4 Years/50, 000 Miles Drivetrain Corrosion Roadside Assistance Unlimited Years/Unlimited Miles Mercedes-Benz Certified Pre-Owned Warranty Certified Pre-Owned Warranty To be eligible for Certified Pre-Owned (CPO) status, vehicles generally must be recent models with relatively low mileage. CPO vehicles must also pass a detailed inspection, outlined by the manufacturer, which is measured by the number of inspected points. Warranty coverage can vary from one manufacturer to the next. While most certified pre-owned programs transfer and extend the existing new car warranty terms, others offer a warranty that simply represents an additional year and mileage value. Always check with the manufacturer for the specific warranties they offer. Common features and benefits of Certified Pre-Owned warranties include: Age/Mileage Eligibility To even be considered for certification, a car must be a recent model year and have limited mileage. The exact requirements are established by individual manufacturers. Lease Term Certified Some manufacturers offer certified pre-owned cars for lease. The length of the lease is often shorter than a new car lease, but it will cost you less. Point Inspection These inspections entail a comprehensive vehicle test to ensure that all parts are in excellent working order. The point inspection list is simply a numbered list of exactly what parts of the car are examined. While many inspections range from a 70- to 150-point checklist, most are very similar and are performed using strict guidelines. Ask your local dealer about specific details. Return/Exchange Program Some manufacturers offer a very limited return or exchange period. Find out if you will get the sales tax and licensing/registration fees back should you return or exchange the car. Roadside Assistance Most certified pre-owned programs offer free roadside service in case your car breaks down while still under warranty. Special Financing Reduced-rate loans are available through many certified pre-owned programs. Manufacturer-backed inspections and warranties help eliminate the risks involved with buying pre-owned, so buyers who qualify can take advantage of the great offers. Transferable Warranty When a new car warranty transfers with the certification of the car and remains eligible for the next owner, it is known as a transferable warranty. Once the original transferable warranty expires, an extended warranty takes effect. Warranty Deductible This is the amount for which you are responsible when repair work is performed under the warranty. Some manufacturers require a deductible while others don't, so always ask. The MBCPO Limited warranty provides vehicle coverage for 12 months and Unlimited vehicle miles and begins at the expiration of the New Vehicle Limited Warranty Age/Mileage Eligibility Model Years 2012-2015 / 75, 000 miles Lease Term Certified Yes Point Inspection Return/Exchange Program Yes. See dealer for details. Special Financing Transferrable Warranty Warranty Deductible Source: www.autotrader.com RELATED VIDEO 2012 Mercedes-Benz CLS550 2012 Mercedes-Benz CLS550 for sale in LOS ANGELES, CA 2012 Mercedes-Benz CLS-Class CLS550 - for sale in ... Share this Post
