Just because you have a green thumb outside doesn’t mean you’ll have equal success with plants inside. Growing houseplants requires a different set of techniques and know-how. Whether you’re expanding inward or a total plant-growing rookie, Costa Farms horticulturist Justin Hancock offers these five important but not-so-well-known inside tips in a GardenSmart blog post: 1.) Fertilizing houseplants helps keep them lush and healthy, but the truth is that many will survive without fertilizer for a couple of years. If you do feed, the two best times are spring and summer. Use any general-purpose houseplant fertilizer. 2.) One way to gauge low light is by assessing whether it’s bright enough to read a book most of the day without having to add supplemental lighting. If there’s not enough light for you to read, it’s best to supplement your plants with artificial light. 3.) All houseplants will drop old leaves as they age. Don’t be alarmed if your plants develop a yellow leaf periodically. It’s more of a warning sign when you see many leaves start to yellow and drop at the same time. 4.) Not all soil is equal. Houseplants don’t like garden soil. If you repot your plants, be sure the product you use is labeled potting mix and has been designed for plants in pots. 5.) Though it might go against what you think, more houseplants die from too much water than not enough. If you’re unsure whether you should add water, probe the potting mix with your finger. If you detect moisture an inch or two down, skip it. Don’t want to get your finger dirty? Invest in an inexpensive moisture meter. December is a month when lots of houseplants change hands via gift-giving. If you’re giving or buying a houseplant and want to keep the success odds as high as possible, Hancock has a list of his five easiest: 1.) Chinese evergreen. This foliage bushy foliage plant is a slow grower that features patterned leaves that show off shades of green and silver. It thrives in low, medium, or bright light and doesn’t mind the low-humidity conditions found in many homes with forced-air heating. When it comes to watering, Chinese evergreen doesn’t mind if you’re not consistent. It can survive a few weeks without water if necessary. 2.) Ponytail palm. Hailing from hot, dry areas of Mexico, ponytail palm is actually a small, very-slow-growing tree that has a thick bonsai-like trunk topped by a festive cluster of grassy leaves. The trunk stores water, allowing ponytail palm to go a few weeks without water if necessary. Ponytail palm grows best in high light but doesn’t mind low or medium light. 3.) Sago palm. This easy-care houseplant dates to dinosaur time, proving its survivor abilities. Like ponytail palm, sago palm grows best in bright light but doesn’t mind medium or low light. It doesn’t need a lot of water. Once a week or two is usually sufficient. 4.) Snake plant. An old-school houseplant that’s held up to the test of time, snake plant has upright, bladed foliage, and a no-fuss nature. High light, medium light, and low light are all just fine for snake plant, and it’s just as tolerant of irregular watering as it is what kind of light it’s in. Forget to water it for a few weeks or are traveling? No worries. 5.) ZZ plant. With its glossy and alternating leaves that resemble steps, ZZ plant is another master at storing moisture. It can go weeks between waterings. The plant takes the same attitude toward light — low, medium, or high are all fine.
