Lots of robins and blackbirds in your garden might indicate you're making one big mistake These popular garden birds are a welcome sight, but if they are there too frequently, there is probably a reason Feeding is a wonderful way to draw birds to your garden, especially in February when winter's chill is still present. These winged guests provide endless amusement with their chirping, flying and unique behaviours, not to mention their role in your garden's ecosystem. However, if blackbirds, dunnocks or robins are frequent visitors to your outdoor space, you might want to check you're feeding them correctly. While hanging feeders are a popular choice for many garden owners, they're not necessarily suitable for all bird species. Blackbirds, dunnocks and robins find it difficult to cling to these suspended feeders, making it hard for them to eat enough to stay satisfied and the reason why they have to keep coming back for more. This problem becomes more significant during colder months when competition from migratory species increases and food resources decrease. For the biggest stories in Wales first, sign up to our daily newsletter here To ensure these birds are well-fed, it's better to use a flat surface to spread out suet or seeds. This could be a bird table, a patch of trimmed grass, or a patio area. Simply scatter the food and watch as your feathered guests hop over to enjoy their meal in peace. Of course, it's essential to clean the area after feeding. If you're using a flat feeder, make sure it's washed with a disinfectant solution. If you're scattering food on a patio or lawn, it's advisable to rinse away any leftovers with a hose or bucket and sponge. This isn't merely about keeping your garden neat and tidy. Bird feeders can unintentionally contribute to the transmission of severe diseases amongst bird populations, including trichomoniasis, a parasitic infection that creates lesions in a bird's mouth, making it impossible for them to feed. The most reliable method to avoid this is through frequent cleaning of the feeders and rotating where you place the food. Gardener's World advises: "While tits and finches are expert at clinging to feeders, blackbirds, dunnocks and robins are much happier foraging on a flat surface, such as a bird table, short grass or paving. "The latter also makes it easier for you to clear up spillage if you need to. "In fact, good hygiene is a must. "A bird-feeding area can be a hotbed for disease, so clean your feeders weekly using a weak disinfectant solution, rinse well before allowing them to dry and then refilling. "It's also important to move the location of feeders every month, to prevent the build up of bacteria in any one area."
