Overview Seller Ref: PAX0492418126 Description A well established garage has been serving the local community for numerous of years, with a loyal customer base and excellent online reviews. Services Offered : Comprehensive car repairs Full MOT testing Diagnostics Manufacture’s Scheduled Maintenance Quality part replacements Air Conditioning Warranty services Fully equipped workshop with the latest tools & equipment. Dedicated staff with a proven track record of customer satisfaction. Why this garage ? Highly Revenue Potential with multiple income revenues from MOT, Repairs etc…. Support and Training: Transition smoothly with a full support from current owner to ensure ongoing success. Growth Opportunities: expand service offerings nad increase local marketing efforts for greater profit potential. Trading Hours: Number of Employees: Support and Training: Location Details: Is this business relocatable: Is this business home based: Is accommodation included: Is this In administrative/receivership: Is stock included: Website address: Similar Listings A highly regarded, long-established motor repair and MOT centre occupying a prominent position in the heart of Lossiemouth. Lossiemouth Garage offers a profitable, cash-generative business with strong year-on-year growth, an established customer ... *Located in the Heart of Whisky Country *Central Village Location On Main Road *Way Of Life Business And Would Suit A Hands On Operator Graham + Sibbald are proud to bring to the market Central Garage. This property offers a flexible way of life busi... Carzone Garage Ltd – Lockerbie, Scotland Freehold Garage Premises with Redevelopment Potential Asking Price: £175,000 INTRODUCTION Goodwins Business Brokers are delighted to present to the market an exceptional freehold opportunity in the heart of... Prime Location With High Traffic And Accessibility Accounts Available To 5th April 2024 Annual Turnover / Gross Profit: £167,318 / £46,782 Accident Repairs, MOT’s And Vehicle Maintenance Established Since 1996 In Dundee’s West End Secure Ya... BASED IN FIFEYE24 turnover in excess of £1,866,000, with an EBIT of circa £208,000. Retails new and used motorcycles under the franchise of a major blue-chip brand.Extensive product knowledge and expertise, cultivated from nearly 50 years... Petrol Filling Station and Shop. Former MOT Station/ property included. c.20,000 litres fuel per week. Located on busy A76 routing. Scope to develop existing business. Recently modernised site. Business currently closed. FREEHOLD PRICE £550,000 plus... The Store and Smiddy at St Gilbert Street, Dornoch is a unique business and development opportunity in an idyllic setting. Sold with vacant possession, the opportunity comprises a substantial garage workshop and two outbuildings in a prime position w... Established for over 40 years Potential for growth or to divide the business if required Approx. 3 acres of land 18 coaches, 14-70 seaters Private & local authority business Service and repair centreLong established coach hire company and garage...
