Dear Master Gardener : What is a potager? Answer : Potager is the French term for kitchen garden or vegetable garden. It comes from the French word potage, which means soup, so a potager provides the ingredients for soup. Potagers were established in monasteries by French monks in the 16th century to provide food and medicinal herbs. The Potager du Roi (kitchen garden of the king), designed in the 17th century, was part of the elaborate gardens at Versailles under the reign of King Louis XIV. It still exists today and is used for teaching purposes for landscape architects. ADVERTISEMENT A potager is an ornamental kitchen garden that combines aesthetics and practicality. Traditionally they were formal in design, geometric in layout, and edged with ornamental plants. Trellises and archways provided support for vining crops and added a vertical element. The vegetables were planted in patterns or groups rather than rows, with flowers, fruits, and herbs intermingled. Today in France potagers are more popular than ever, as the trend of organic gardening has increased. They range in style from formal, with sharp borders and elaborate configurations of beds with pathways, to a more informal cottage garden style. Vegetables and herbs with colorful foliage, such as “Purple Ruffles” basil, “Bronze” fennel, and various leaf lettuces, are often grown to add more visual interest. Because the COVID-19 pandemic caused food shortages and kept people at home, and many have become more concerned about food safety and the use of pesticides, kitchen gardens have undergone a resurgence in popularity. To create an easy kitchen garden in the French potager style, take a square plot and divide it into four triangles with a trellis or tree as a central focal point. You can also create a potager with raised beds and pathways. Intermingle vegetables, herbs, fruits and flowers. Choose vegetables and herbs that not only taste good, but also provide great aesthetic value. Consider adding edible flowers, such as calendulas or nasturtiums. Lavender and rosemary can provide structure and beauty to an otherwise boring vegetable plot. Most importantly, grow the foods you and your family enjoy and take the opportunity to try heirloom vegetables and those not readily available in grocery stores. The French approach to vegetable gardening — le potager — is not only practical, but also brings beauty to the food garden. When you finish shoveling all this snow you can settle down with a mug of cocoa and some graph paper and plan your own potager! Dear Master Gardener : My Schefflera has yellow speckles on the underside of the leaves. Is it getting a disease? Answer : It sounds like your plant may have spider mites. The first sign of a spider mite attack is usually a mottled or pin-prick yellow discoloration on the underside of the foliage. Spider mites are hard to see with the naked eye. They typically live and feed under the leaves and spin a fine, white web, which eventually can cover the whole plant. They are not true insects, but related more to spiders and ticks. Spider mites are a serious problem and can multiply quickly, eventually defoliating and killing the plant. They thrive in dry environments. Because they can enter a home on Christmas trees and greenery in December, this is a good time to be periodically checking your houseplants. To find out if you have a spider mite problem, place a white sheet of paper under the mottled leaf and tap on it. If you see tiny moving creatures on the paper, you know you have a problem. If the infestation is light you can try washing the leaves of the plant. If the plant is small enough you can place it in the sink and spray it with warm water to dislodge the pests. On a larger plant you can use a soft, soapy cloth to wipe the leaves then rinse them with warm water. For serious infestations, you can use bifenthrin, insecticidal soap or plant oil extracts. Spray your plant on both sides of the leaves in a well-ventilated area, and keep it out of direct sun for one day after treatment. It is important to read the labels on pesticides very carefully before buying and using the product. If the spider mites persist, you might as well get rid of the plant. Dear Master Gardener : My brother and I miss the beautiful and fragrant wisteria that grew along our porch roof in Alabama when we were growing up. He claims that it can be grown here in Minnesota but I doubt it because I have never seen it here. Who is right? Answer : Your brother wins this one. Most species of Wisteria grow south of Minnesota, but Kentucky Wisteria (Wisteria macrostachys) is hardy here and carried by local nurseries. It is a spectacularly beautiful, early-summer, twining, woody, deciduous climber with fragrant, pendulous white, pink, or blue-violet flowers that frequently rebloom later in the summer. It also has attractive, long, dark green leaves with oval leaflets and an interesting, gnarled trunk. It performs best in full sun and moist, rich soil. Two cultivars thrive in Minnesota — Aunt Dee and Blue Moon. Northland Arboretum in Brainerd has had a lovely Aunt Dee for many years. ADVERTISEMENT The University of Minnesota developed and released Wisteria Summer Cascade, which is hardy to zone 3. It has 10- to 12-inch clusters of dark lavender flowers and gets interesting seed pods in late summer, providing multi-season interest. Once established, new canes can grow up to ten feet in a summer. There may be some reasons why Wisteria is not more popular here. First, it needs a sturdy wall, stake, trellis or pergola to support its size and weight. Second, it takes several years to settle in before blooming. Third, it can be very aggressive and definitely requires careful and often heavy pruning — sometimes two to three times a year, both to contain it and to force heavier bloom. It is not a plant for the casual gardener. But it is so beautiful that you may have strangers stopping by to ask you what that gorgeous plant is! You may get your garden questions answered by calling the new Master Gardener Help Line at 218-824-1068 and leaving a message. A Master Gardener will return your call. Or, email me at umnmastergardener@gmail.com and I will answer you in the column if space allows. University of Minnesota Extension Master Gardeners are trained and certified volunteers for the University of Minnesota Extension. Information given in this column is based on university research.
