The latest fighting between Thailand and Cambodia is now in its second week without any sign of abating. The flare-up along the Thai-Cambodian border, which started on Dec 7, is a retaliation for a Cambodian attack on Thai forces in the area of Phu Pha Lek–Phlan Hin Paet Kon, in Si Sa Ket's Kantharalak district, which resulted in two Thai soldiers being injured. Such an unprovoked attack from Cambodia clearly violated the ceasefire agreement that the leaders of both countries signed three months ago in the Malaysian capital of Kuala Lumpur. It is not the first time Bangkok has faced the bitter realities of territorial disputes. The first round of the Thai-Cambodian crisis this year escalated in several disputed areas along the border, including clashes in the Emerald Triangle in tambon Chong Bok of Ubon Ratchathani's Nam Yuen district on May 28. The crisis erupted into open armed conflict on July 24 and lasted until July 27. With the help of Malaysia, host of Asean this year, Thailand and Cambodia agreed to an unconditional ceasefire on July 28 in Kuala Lumpur. However, the inked peace agreement has just become toothless as Cambodia continued its military attacks while claiming Thailand had done so first. This came after Cambodia had been kicking the can down the road by not clearing fresh landmines that its army is reported to have planted to maim and subdue Thai soldiers. From my perspective, the Thai government and the Supreme Command Headquarters have managed the situation since the outbreak of hostilities with remarkable efficiency. The government and the army have now sought to keep external mediation, especially from third countries and superpowers, at bay, at least for the time being. War is never good, yet the majority of Thais are satisfied with how the government and the military have handled the conflict. In particular, many people living along the northeastern and eastern border have been telling the media that they accept the loss of their homes and property, and expect this war to be the last. Regarding communication, a dedicated task force, the Joint Press Center on the Thailand–Cambodia border situation, was established to keep the public informed twice daily in both Thai and English. Apart from that, the centre translated Thai–Cambodian border press briefings into 10 other languages to reach the international community. The government's PR team sent clear, consistent messages that Thailand is determined to defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity through its military. Officials from various ministries and the military have been providing daily updates and, above all, rebutting fake news and misinformation circulating on social media. The ongoing clash also offers Thailand a valuable lesson: it should not remain silent or be overly passive. For us, silence might be restraint and peace-loving, yet silence robs us of being resolute and decisive, and can prolong conflict. More importantly, the government of Prime Minister Anutin Charnvirakul has entrusted the National Security Council and the armed forces with the authority to make battlefield decisions. By deliberately keeping political actors out of such matters, Thailand has demonstrated a pragmatic approach that separated military strategy from political manoeuvring. The latest example of how much the government supports the army is the approval of a 2.44-billion-baht central budget from the central fund for the 2026 fiscal year to reinforce the military and shore up border security amid ongoing fighting. Thais have shown their full support for military operations in dealing with the border conflict this time, with the hope that Cambodia's military capabilities will be reduced to an unthreatening level. Despite public support or the need to vanquish the Cambodian army, Thailand must adhere to international law to safeguard its territorial sovereignty. It must not attack innocent civilians, but only target Cambodia's military positions. Beyond the battlefield, there are challenges on the diplomatic stage. Of course, third countries and superpowers, such as the United States and China, will sooner or later step in to play a mediator role. Thailand will need to maintain its sovereignty and use diplomacy to make the international community understand the real situation, instead of listening to the Cambodian's victimhood narratives. Thailand has learned that sustainable peace cannot be outsourced. Thailand and Cambodia must be the ones to resolve this territorial dispute, and it must be Cambodia alone that initiates negotiations to end the conflict with Thailand.
