Love a good murder? Want to get the little grey cells firing over the festive period? To save you having to turn your magnifying glass to the TV schedules, we’ve combed through them for you to select the very best mysteries coming up soon. There's Netflix's first Agatha Christie adaptation, Agatha Christie’s Seven Dials , which sees Helena Bonham-Carter and Martin Freeman becoming embroiled in a fatal event at a sprawling country pile (naturally). Plus, there’s Treasure & Dirt , where the murder of a local miner rocks a small, rural community in the Australian desert and Eve Myles is making a welcome appearance on our screens in ITV's latest mystery thriller Gone . Agatha Christie’s Seven Dials It wouldn’t be a round-up of mystery series without mentioning Agatha Christie. This time, it’s her novel The Seven Dials Mystery that’s being reimagined. Starring a cast of British actors including Helena Bonham-Carter in the role of Lady Caterham and Martin Freeman as Superintendent Battle, the drama is set in a lavish country house party in 1925 where practical jokes goes “horribly and murderously” wrong. What to Read Next Will Lady Eileen "Bundle" Brent (Mia McKenna-Bruce) get to the bottom of it? Agatha Christie’s Seven Dials is arriving on Netflix on Thursday, 15 January. Deadloch Deadloch is one of the best series we’ve seen in years, so we were thrilled when Prime Video finally announced the arrival of the second season. Mismatched detectives Dulcie Collins (Kate Box) and Eddie Redcliffe (Madeleine Sami) are back again as the investigation into the death of Eddie’s former policing partner takes them from Tasmania to Australia’s “sweltering” Northern Territory. The investigation veers into a different direction when the body of a local celebrity is discovered in a nearby remote town. Expect cliffhangers, twists, and plenty of dark comedy. Deadloch season two is coming to Prime Video on Friday, 20 March. Treasure & Dirt While we love a detective drama set in the UK, sometimes we crave a series where the action takes place in sunnier climes. Enter Treasure & Dirt , a riveting new drama that will transport us to an opal town in Australia’s desert, where a local miner is found brutally beheaded. It’s up to big city homicide detective Ivan Lucic (Michael Dorman) and rural detective Nell Buchanan ( Yellowjackets ' Liv Hewson) to track down the killer. But their investigation becomes increasingly complex when they uncover far more than just a murderer. Treasure & Dirt is likely to air in 2026 on BBC One and BBC iPlayer. Gone In Gone , Eve Myles is playing a gutsy detective – of course, because she's really, really good at it. The series focuses on the disappearance of Bristol woman and Detective Annie Cassidy (Myles) is tasked with finding her. As she delves deeper into the investigation, she lands on her prime suspect: the husband, Headmaster Michael Polly ( Sherwood’s David Morrissey), an upstanding member of the community. The pair then enter into a compulsive game of cat and mouse as Detective Cassidy chips at his inscrutable veneer in search of the truth. Gone is expected to arrive on ITV1 in 2026. Dustfall Prepare yourself for your next TV addiction in the form of Dustfall. Based on Vikki Petraitis’ expertly plotted novel, The Unbelieved , the six-part mystery covers important themes like injustice, failing legal systems and institutionalised misogyny. It follows Detective Tig (Anna Torv), who’s relocated back to her small hometown in Australia, where she’s investigating a string of drink-spiking assaults. But when her prime suspect is found murdered, Detective Tig is plunged into even darker territory. If that chilling premise wasn’t enough, also in the cast is British acting legend Juliet Stevenson. Dustfall is expected to debut on BBC One and iPlayer in 2026. Murdoch Mysteries Fancy a mystery series and a period setting? If that’s the case, then Murdoch Mysteries, set in the early 1900s during the age of invention, is for you. It stars Yannick Bisson as William Murdoch, a maverick detective who uses cutting-edge techniques for the time, like fingerprinting, ultraviolet light and blood testing, to solve various crimes across Canada. The best part is you can catch up (or rewatch!) the first 18 series of Murdoch Mysteries already before series 19 arrives in the UK. Murdoch Mysteries season 19 is expected to air on U&Alibi in January 2026, while series 1-18 are available on NOW. Ludwig Anna Maxwell Martin and David Mitchell are the acting duo to be reckoned with in cosy mystery drama Ludwig, which is making a welcome return. In the first series, we met puzzle setter John “Ludwig” Taylor (Mitchell), who decided to impersonate his detective brother James after he mysteriously vanished to uncover clues about his whereabouts. Now an official consultant for the Cambridgeshire Police after they discovered his knack for solving crime, Ludwig will get stuck into more police work while continuing to look for his brother with the help of his sister-in-law Lucy Taylor-Betts (Martin). Guest stars include the fantastic Sian Clifford ( Fleabag ) and Mark Bonnar. Ludwig season two is coming to BBC One and BBC iPlayer in 2026. The Case The Case is “part love story, party criminal thriller”, according to its creator George Kay, who knows a thing or two about crafting excellent series as he also gave us Hijack , Lupin and The Long Shadow . Set in Stockholm, the five-part series follows respected investigator Thomas Berg (Jakob Oftebro), who’s busy hunting down a murderer. But there’s a chilling twist: as this particular killer starts targeting Thomas’s police colleagues. Out of sheer desperation, Thomas reluctantly turns to his estranged father, a brilliant ex-detective, for help. The Case will arrive on Netflix in 2026. The Bay The Bay is one of those series you just can't help but go back to, so we were relieved to hear the detective drama’s sixth series is very much in the pipeline. A mash-up of Broadchurch and Shetland , the series centres on DS Jenn Townsend (Marsha Thomason), who investigates a slew of crimes in the seaside town of Morecambe. It’s not yet clear what case she’ll be tackling in The Bay series 6, but her past investigations have included the murder of a 23-year-old university student and missing persons, so it’s likely to be another complex one. The Bay season six will arrive on ITV1 and ITVX in 2026. Season 1 of The Bay is now streaming on Disney+. Death Valley Death Valley sees bright and big-hearted detective Janie Mallowan (Gwyneth Keyworth), throw caution to the wind and team up with the reclusive John Chapel (Timothy Spall), a retired actor who played a detective on TV, to get to the bottom of series of crimes troubling rural Wales. In each episode the unlikely duo sink their teeth into a new case, using their complementary but opposing skillsets to bring criminals to justice. The upcoming second series will see John and DS Mallowan return just in time as the crime rate in Wales “skyrockets” (according to Jon Petrie, BBC Director of Comedy Commissioning. He's also promised “more murder and mischief”) Death Valley season two will arrive on BBC One and BBC iPlayer in 2026. Love TV? Get your Christmas viewing sorted with the Good Housekeeping Christmas TV Guide , featuring 14 days of Christmas TV listings, plus everything you need for the ultimate festive viewing experience! Just £4.75 – available at Morrisons, TG Jones and all other good magazine retailers. Ruth is a freelance TV writer for the Good Housekeeping website, covering everything from unmissable thrillers to glossy period dramas. She previously worked at Metro for three years as a senior TV reporter and has written for publications including The Guardian and Time Out. Nathalie edits our award-winning content across platforms, while overseeing our celebrity output and booking cover stars and talent for GH events. She previously held the role of Group Celebrity Director across GH , Red and Prima and led Future’s Life & Style entertainment hub. Editor, Digital Spy Chris has over 25 years' experience as a writer and editor, having worked as a journalist covering TV and movies since the '90s. Starting out as a TV listings editor at the Press Association, he was quickly hired by the nascent Heat magazine, where he rose to become Senior Editor, interviewing the likes of Simon Cowell, Boris Johnson and Paris Hilton. Over the years he has written about entertainment with clarity and wit for Heat, Elle, Q, The Telegraph and of course Digital Spy, and has served many times as a judge in the Royal Television Society awards. He has written and recorded a novelty single with Lord Lloyd-Webber, written scripts for the National TV Awards, made Noel Edmonds cry, accidentally punched an Inbetweener and stolen a small piece of rubble from the Battle of Hogwarts movie set. (They can't have it back.) LinkedIn
