Or TTRPGs Wrapped, if you will. 2025 draws to a close, and so another year of playing and reading games has passed. What a year, huh? After talking with some folks in the Dice Exploder discord, I decided to hit go on an idea I’d been tossing around: The Endie Awards. What is this? Simple: write a blog post or share on social media the stats about your time with ttrpgs this year, and/or write some superlatives about games you played or read this year. OPTIONAL: Tell us what 3-5 games you are looking forward to playing or reading next year, or a couple “ttrpg new year’s resolutions”. Tag it with #Endies2025 , tell your friends, look at the stuff others are sharing in the hashtag, and find a little joy in this end of year stretch (which for me is largely spent in front of the fireplace with a heated blanket and UV lamp to fight the winter blues). Resources I’ve put together a canva template if you want to throw your data and superlatives into it, but feel free to make your own! Data Categories I’m Using I did not keep robust data this year (for reason: had a baby). But I do have a general idea of how many games I read, how many games I played, and what I played most. You might have number of sessions/hours played, number of people/groups played with, number of games purchased/backed, etc. Whatever data you kept and want to share, go for it! Superlatives I’m Using Again, you might not want to use the same “awards” as me, and that’s very fine and in fact I encourage it! I don’t know what my list will look like for sure, but some I am considering: Most Hacked Game Game Most Likely to Be on My Mind Still in 2026 Favorite Playtested Game PDF Game I Need for My Shelf Game That Got My GM/Referee/MC Wheels Spinning Ideally this is a celebration of the games you played or read this year – I would caution against making purely negative Endie superlatives. As the name suggests with its homophonic nature, I anticipate a lot of indie games to feature in these posts. Go forth and post! Can’t wait to see what you played and read this year. Cheers, LT Or TTRPGs Wrapped, if you will. 2025 draws to a close, and so another year of playing and reading games has passed. What a year, huh? After talking with some folks in the Dice Exploder discord, I decided to hit go on an idea I’d been tossing around: The Endie Awards. What is this? Simple: write a blog post or share on social media the stats about your time with ttrpgs this year, and/or write some superlatives about games you played or read this year. OPTIONAL: Tell us what 3-5 games you are looking forward to playing or reading next year, or a couple “ttrpg new year’s resolutions”. Tag it with #Endies2025 , tell your friends, look at the stuff others are sharing in the hashtag, and find a little joy in this end of year stretch (which for me is largely spent in front of the fireplace with a heated blanket and UV lamp to fight the winter blues). Resources I’ve put together a canva template if you want to throw your data and superlatives into it, but feel free to make your own! Data Categories I’m Using I did not keep robust data this year (for reason: had a baby). But I do have a general idea of how many games I read, how many games I played, and what I played most. You might have number of sessions/hours played, number of people/groups played with, number of games purchased/backed, etc. Whatever data you kept and want to share, go for it! Superlatives I’m Using Again, you might not want to use the same “awards” as me, and that’s very fine and in fact I encourage it! I don’t know what my list will look like for sure, but some I am considering: Most Hacked Game Game Most Likely to Be on My Mind Still in 2026 Favorite Playtested Game PDF Game I Need for My Shelf Game That Got My GM/Referee/MC Wheels Spinning Ideally this is a celebration of the games you played or read this year – I would caution against making purely negative Endie superlatives. As the name suggests with its homophonic nature, I anticipate a lot of indie games to feature in these posts. Go forth and post! Can’t wait to see what you played and read this year. Cheers, LT
