We are announcing an early submission window for the CLDR Survey Tool, exclusively for Digitally Disadvantaged Languages (DDLs). These include languages across the world that lack full digital support, such as Qʼeqchiʼ with about 1.3M speakers, and many more. The early submission window will allow more time for individuals and organizations that make DDL contributions, providing crucial data to close the digital support gap. The data will go into the CLDR v50 release, targeted at October 2026. Languages maintained by the CLDR Technical Committee are not available during this special window. They will be available for submission in Q2 2026. See DDL: Help Center for more information on how to contribute to a DDL language. If your language is not yet in CLDR, organizations can submit a formal request to add it; see adding a new language. CLDR Organizations are needed for approval of CLDR data, so that it can be picked up by libraries, applications, programming languages, and operating systems. To register a new CLDR Organization, see adding an organization to CLDR. Individuals can also request languages and submit/approve data; however, the data cannot reach even Basic coverage without at least one CLDR Organization supporting it. What is CLDR? CLDR provides key building blocks for software to support the world's languages (dates, times, numbers, sort-order, etc.). All major browsers and all modern mobile phones use CLDR for language support. (See Who uses CLDR?) Contributors supply data for their languages via the online Survey Tool. This data is widely used to support much of the world’s software and is also a factor in determining which languages are supported on mobile phones and computer operating systems. The Survey Tool opened on December 18, 2025 for DDL languages. The tool will remain open for data submission and correction until July 2026. A public alpha will make the draft data available in early August 2026. Data contributed at this time will be scheduled for publication and available for use in October 2026. Each additional CLDR language starts with a small set of Core Data, such as a list of characters used in the language. Submitters of new languages commit to bringing the coverage up to a minimum of Basic coverage (very basic formats for dates, times, numbers, and endonyms). Once a language reaches Basic coverage, it will have the minimum support for use in language selection, such as on mobile devices. That is the first step; for broader support the Moderate level is typically required. If you would like to contribute missing data for your language, see Survey Tool Accounts. ---------------------------------------------- Adopt a Character and Support Unicode’s Mission Looking to give that special someone a special something? Or maybe something to treat yourself? 🕉️💗🏎️🐨🔥🚀爱₿♜🍀 Adopt a character or emoji to give it the attention it deserves, while also supporting Unicode’s mission to ensure everyone can communicate in their own languages across all devices. Each adoption includes a digital badge and certificate that you can proudly display! Have fun and support a good cause You can also donate funds or gift stock
