Cetec ERP AI Tools Automate Back-Office Operations Cetec ERP LLC introduces Document Scan & Attach and AP Automation tools to streamline paperwork and invoice processing for manufacturers. Share Cetec ERP’s Document Scan & Attach and AP Automation AI-powered automation tools are designed to eliminate manual paperwork and speed up back-office operations for manufacturers. Together, these features aim to reduce friction, improve accuracy and centralize operations within one integrated platform, according to the company. The Document Scan & Attach tool automatically files paperwork such as receipts, work order packets and vendor documents directly into Cetec ERP. Using optical character recognition (OCR) and AI, the system reads scanned PDFs, intelligently matches them to the correct records and attaches them automatically. Any documents that can’t be matched are routed to a review queue for quick follow-up. For example, the receiving department can scan a batch of Certificates of Conformance, packing slips and receipts, and the Cetec ERP system automatically matches and files each one to the correct receipt object for traceability. This replaces the need to upload documents one by one or file paper copies by hand. In addition, the AP Automation tool streamlines invoice processing by turning emailed or scanned vendor invoices into vouchers automatically. Invoices are read with OCR and AI, then matched against purchase orders and receipts for a complete three-way match. When matches are verified, vouchers are automatically approved. Any discrepancies are flagged for review. The AP Automation feature increases the capacity of accounting departments at small manufacturing companies by reducing administrative overhead and data entry, according to Cetec ERP. It also provides improved visibility into accounts payable operations without removing control of cash flow. Both features are available now to all Cetec ERP customers. “These features take tedious, error-prone work off people’s plates and increase their capacity for more value-added work,” says Scott Ryan, senior consultant at Cetec ERP. “We want to make everyday processes simpler, faster and more reliable for our customers.” Related Content Can ChatGPT Create Usable G-Code Programs? Since its debut in late 2022, ChatGPT has been used in many situations, from writing stories to writing code, including G-code. But is it useful to shops? We asked a CAM expert for his thoughts. 4 Commonly Misapplied CNC Features Misapplication of these important CNC features will result in wasted time, wasted or duplicated effort and/or wasted material. Shop Reclaims 10,000 Square Feet with Inventory Management System Intech Athens’ inventory management system, which includes vertical lift modules from Kardex Remstar and tool management software from ZOLLER, has saved the company time, space and money.
