I love reading old journals and am often struck by the precision and beauty of language in old math and science journals. Many brighter than I have commented on the seemingly inevitable reduction in rigor as schools require all students to take more advanced math. I think the same thing has happened across the board to language as everyone is expected to complete a high school education. I recently read a note that had two quotes, both saying essentially the same thing. The first is from Leonhard Euler and dates around the American revolution; the second is from George Box and dated around 1987, Empirical Model-Building and Response Surfaces . Both are incredibly literate and knowledgeable people, and yet: "Although to penetrate into the intimate mysteries of nature and thence to learn the true causes of phenomena is not allowed to us, nevertheless it can happen that a certain fictive hypothesis may suffice for explaining many phenomena" "All models are wrong... some models are useful. " I love reading old journals and am often struck by the precision and beauty of language in old math and science journals. Many brighter than I have commented on the seemingly inevitable reduction in rigor as schools require all students to take more advanced math. I think the same thing has happened across the board to language as everyone is expected to complete a high school education. I recently read a note that had two quotes, both saying essentially the same thing. The first is from Leonhard Euler and dates around the American revolution; the second is from George Box and dated around 1987, Empirical Model-Building and Response Surfaces . Both are incredibly literate and knowledgeable people, and yet: "Although to penetrate into the intimate mysteries of nature and thence to learn the true causes of phenomena is not allowed to us, nevertheless it can happen that a certain fictive hypothesis may suffice for explaining many phenomena" "All models are wrong... some models are useful. "
