Process Knowledge Management, Part IV From Theory to Practice, The Procedural Knowledge Ontology A special thank you to the PERKS team at Cefriel. I appreciate the time Valentina Carriero, Mario Scrocca and Irene Celino. Your work in this space is brilliant. Introduction The first three essays in this series established the theoretical and methodological foundations for process knowledge management. We examined why process knowledge represents a distinct and critical form of organizational intelligence, explored collection strategies and organizing principles, and confronted the sobering history of how Western companies systematically outsourced not just work, but the very capacity to understand how things get built. Throughout, we learned how process knowledge—the understanding of how workflows and procedures actually function—requires explicit representation through ontologies to serve both human collaborators and AI systems. This final essay moves from theory to practice. We will examine a real ontology built to solve real industrial problems: the Procedural Knowledge Ontology (PKO), developed by researchers at Cefriel in collaboration with industrial partners including Beko Europe, Fagor Automation, and Siemens.1 By walking through PKOs use cases, we will see how the abstract concepts discussed in previous essays—tacit knowledge elicitation, semantic encoding, knowledge graph exploitation—manifest in concrete implementations that deliver measurable value. One of the most common use cases for AI implementations is based upon workflows. And every AI project inherently establishes workflows, some more complex than others. And when workflows change, it is difficult to maintain knowledge parity with the states of change, for lack of a logical knowledge model that can effectively communicate these alternations to machines. As we established in Part III, organizations that fail to capture and codify their procedural knowledge find themselves increasingly dependent on external systems and services, unable to leverage AI effectively. PKO represents a logical ontological methodology—a structured, semantic representation—that can be used by AI and data tools to manage procedural knowledge throughout its lifecycle.2 The Problem PKO Addresses In industrial settings, much like software and product development settings, procedural knowledge exists as both tacit and explicit process knowledge. Experienced operators carry in their heads the sequences, conditions, and judgment calls that make complex procedures work. This knowledge lives in practiced hands, as documentation, in margin notes in outdated manuals, and in the institutional memory of workers who may retire, or move on. The absence of cohesive, formalized knowledge representations of both tacit and explicit process knowledge has significant consequences. When procedural knowledge cannot be accessed or reused by machines and people, organizations face increased compliance risks, higher error rates during procedure execution, and substantial friction in training and onboarding new employees.3 The challenge of capturing processes as formalized procedures intensifies as organizations deploy AI systems that require that rich procedural context to function effectively—some of the context existing only in human minds. PKO addresses this challenge by providing a formal ontology for explicitly modeling and representing procedures, their executions, and related resources. Built on requirements collected from three heterogeneous industrial scenarios—safety procedures in manufacturing plants, CNC machine commissioning processes, and mixed human-machine activities in grid management—PKO offers a shared, interoperable representation that supports the governance of procedural knowledge throughout its entire life cycle.4 Why Do I Care About Industrial Processes? While you may not immediately relate industrial processes to software and product oriented processes, industrial engineering, software engineering, data engineering and product management share many core tenants related to engineering as a whole. All four practices and domains share practices and methodologies such as system optimization, process improvement, algorithmic thinking, data analysis, quality control, validation matrices, data modeling and structured problem-solving. In current development environments across domains and industries, artificial intelligence is narrowing the gaps between domain practices, revealing that procedural workflows and knowledge management are universal challenges. MIT Sloan Management Review terms this “the paradox of abundant knowledge” which includes human judgement (RHLF: Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback), the discovery of hidden knowledge (implicit and tacit knowledge) and the need for user and use case specific knowledge (curation and liquid knowledge able to meet user and use case needs, dynamically)5 A striking distinction and maybe where industrial engineering is ahead of software industry systems, lies in industrial engineering’s approach to automation. Industrial engineering tends towards first designing and building systems that are semi-automated, before unleashing a fully automated process or workflow into a system. This is a disciplined approach that values subject matter expert feedback loops . This approach helps system designers architect with clear intentions to achieve specific outcomes while prioritizing the human beneficiaries and end users. A procedural knowledge management system is thus engineered to support humans and machines, to support workflows and processes. LOTO: Safety Procedures at Beko Europe To understand how PKO works in practice, let us examine one of its foundational use cases: Lockout/Tagout (LOTO) safety procedures at Beko Europe, a major home appliance manufacturer. LOTO procedures are critical safety protocols that ensure machinery is properly shut down and cannot be restarted during maintenance or servicing activities. These procedures are legally mandated, rigorously documented, and absolutely essential for worker safety. Yet despite their importance, LOTO procedures exemplify the process knowledge problem. The formal documentation tells operators what steps to perform, but the tacit knowledge of how to actually execute those steps—which panels to access first, which sequence minimizes risk, what warning signs indicate incomplete lockout—often exists only in the experience of veteran maintenance workers. New employees must learn through apprenticeship, shadowing experienced colleagues until the procedural knowledge becomes embodied in their own practice. Before PKO, this situation created several operational challenges. Knowledge transfer depended on the availability of experienced workers. Procedural documentation lagged behind actual practice. Consistency varied between shifts and facilities. And critically, there was no mechanism to make this procedural knowledge available to computational systems that might assist workers in executing complex safety protocols. PKO’s Architecture and Design The PKO ontology provides a structured framework for representing procedures and their executions. Understanding its architecture illuminates how abstract ontological concepts translate into practical knowledge management tools. At its core, PKO distinguishes between procedures (abstract specifications of how to accomplish something) and executions (concrete instances of those procedures being performed).6 This mirrors the distinction we made in earlier essays between process knowledge as pattern and process knowledge as practice. A LOTO procedure might specify the general steps for shutting down a conveyor system. A LOTO execution represents a specific maintenance technician performing that lockout on a specific date with specific observations and outcomes. PKO’s modular design includes a core module for representing procedures, steps, executions, and related concepts, plus an industry-specific module containing concepts particular to manufacturing contexts—machines, equipment, safety requirements, and regulatory frameworks.7 This modularity proves essential for extensibility; organizations can adopt the core procedural concepts while developing domain-specific extensions for their particular operational contexts. PKO Ontology Specifics The ontology reuses and extends several existing semantic standards, following best practices for ontology engineering. PROV-O provides general provenance information about agents, activities, and entities. P-Plan extends PROV-O for modeling plans and plan executions. DCAT handles metadata about resources. The Time Ontology represents temporal concepts critical to understanding when procedures are executed and how long steps take.8 @prefix adms: <http://www.w3.org/ns/adms#> . @prefix bibo: <http://purl.org/ontology/bibo/> . @prefix dcat: <http://www.w3.org/ns/dcat#> . @prefix dcterms: <http://purl.org/dc/terms/> . @prefix m4ing: <http://w3id.org/nfdi4ing/metadata4ing#> . @prefix mod: <https://w3id.org/mod#> . @prefix owl: <http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#> . @prefix pko: <https://w3id.org/pko#> . @prefix pplan: <http://purl.org/net/p-plan#> . @prefix pro: <http://purl.org/spar/pro/> . @prefix prov: <http://www.w3.org/ns/prov#> . @prefix rdf: <http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#> . @prefix rdfs: <http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#> . @prefix schema: <https://schema.org/> . @prefix time: <http://www.w3.org/2006/time#> . @prefix vann: <http://purl.org/vocab/vann/> . @prefix xsd: <http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#> . This reuse ensures interoperability with other semantic systems and reduces the conceptual overhead for organizations already working with linked data standards. Before : Tacit Knowledge and Limitations To appreciate PKO’s impact, we must understand the “as-is” scenario it addresses. In the pre-PKO state, Beko Europe’s LOTO procedures existed primarily in two forms: formal documentation mandated by safety regulations, and tacit knowledge held by experienced maintenance personnel. The formal documentation provided necessary legal compliance but offered limited operational value. Procedures were written in natural language, stored in static documents, and updated infrequently. There was no mechanism for capturing variations, exceptions, or the contextual wisdom that experienced workers brought to procedure execution. The documents told workers to “de-energize the main power supply” without encoding the dozens of micro-decisions that experienced technicians make automatically—which indicators to check, what sounds to listen for, how to verify complete isolation. Knowledge transfer happened through traditional apprenticeship: new technicians shadowed experienced ones, gradually absorbing procedural knowledge through observation and guided practice. This approach works, but scales poorly. When multiple new hires arrive simultaneously, or when experienced workers retire before adequate knowledge transfer can occur, institutional memory erodes. Perhaps most critically, there was no pathway for computational systems to access procedural knowledge. The AI systems that might assist workers—providing real-time guidance, verifying procedure completion, flagging potential safety issues—had no structured representation of procedures to reason over. The knowledge existed in human minds and static documents, neither of which AI systems could readily consume. Sound familiar? After: Explicit, Actionable Procedural Knowledge PKO’s implementation transformed Beko Europe’s landscape, by making procedural knowledge explicit, structured, and computationally accessible. The transformation began with a systematic elicitation process. Following the Linked Open Terms (LOT) methodology, the PKO development team conducted hands-on workshops with domain experts from each industrial use case.9 These workshops employed the techniques we discussed in Part II: structured interviews to capture formal procedure specifications, observation and ethnography to surface tacit knowledge, and collaborative sessions to reconcile different perspectives on how procedures actually work. The elicited knowledge was then encoded using PKO’s ontological framework. LOTO procedures became instances of the PKO Procedure class, with individual steps represented as ordered sequences of activities. Each step carried metadata about required resources, preconditions, expected duration, and responsible actors. Crucially, the encoding captured not just the normative procedure but variations and exceptions—what to do when standard approaches don’t work, how to handle equipment in non-standard configurations, which warning signs require immediate escalation. This encoded knowledge now lives in a knowledge graph that can be queried, validated, and reasoned over computationally. The procedural knowledge that previously existed only in human minds became a shared asset that both human workers and AI systems could access. Practical Elicitation and Exploitation PKO’s value manifests through two primary application categories: tools for eliciting procedural knowledge from domain experts, and systems for exploiting that knowledge in operational contexts. For elicitation, the PKO team developed a web-based tool that guides domain experts through the process of documenting procedures using PKO’s structure.10 The tool provides a user-friendly interface that hides the complexity of the underlying knowledge graph. Experts can specify steps, define sequences, attach resources, and encode conditional logic without needing to understand OWL syntax or RDF triples. The tool effectively translates expert knowledge into semantic form, turning tacit understanding into explicit, structured data. This approach addresses one of the key challenges we identified in Part II: the difficulty of knowledge acquisition when domain experts lack familiarity with semantic technologies. By providing an intuitive interface, the elicitation tool reduces the friction of capturing procedural knowledge while ensuring the resulting representations conform to PKO’s formal structure. For exploitation, the PKO team implemented a chatbot that uses the PKO-based knowledge graph to answer questions about procedures.11 This chatbot, developed on a conversational AI platform empowered by knowledge graphs, provides industrial operators with quick access to relevant procedural information. A maintenance technician preparing for a LOTO procedure can query the system about specific steps, required resources, or safety considerations, receiving responses grounded in the organization’s actual procedural knowledge rather than generic AI-generated content. The chatbot implementation follows a knowledge graph-empowered Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) architecture—precisely the approach we discussed in Part II as a promising pattern for integrating process knowledge with AI systems. By grounding AI responses in formally represented procedural knowledge, the system delivers accurate, contextually appropriate guidance while maintaining the traceability that industrial safety applications require. Measured Impact: What the Evidence Shows The value of ontology-based procedural knowledge management extends beyond Beko Europe’s specific implementation. Research across industrial knowledge graph deployments provides compelling evidence for the approach’s effectiveness. Bosch’s implementation of knowledge graph solutions for quality management in electronics manufacturing demonstrated a 70% improvement in data analysis efficiency and cost savings of approximately €200,000 annually across their factories.12 While this implementation focused on product quality rather than procedural knowledge specifically, it validates the broader principle that semantic data integration delivers measurable operational benefits. The efficiency gains compound when procedural knowledge becomes accessible to AI systems. As we noted in Part II, GraphRAG—retrieval augmented generation using graph-structured knowledge—achieves dramatically higher accuracy than LLM-based approaches operating without structured knowledge. Research on geospatial applications showed accuracy improvements from 37% to 81% when connecting language models to structured knowledge graphs.13 While these specific numbers come from a different domain, they illustrate the general pattern: AI systems perform substantially better when they can ground their reasoning in formally represented knowledge rather than relying solely on statistical patterns. For PKO specifically, early validation demonstrates that the ontology meets defined requirements and represents procedural concepts effectively. The ontology has been evaluated through automatic consistency checks, criteria-based assessment covering accuracy, clarity, adaptability, completeness, and organizational fitness, and task-based evaluation using the competency questions that guided its development.14 Implications for AI Workflows The PKO case study illuminates a broader truth about AI in industrial contexts: effective AI deployment requires a rich knowledge infrastructure. The AI systems that will deliver lasting value are those grounded in formally represented organizational knowledge—the procedures, constraints, and contextual wisdom that experienced workers carry. This has profound implications for how organizations approach AI adoption. Many current deployments focus on the AI layer itself—selecting models, fine-tuning performance, optimizing prompts. PKO suggests that equal attention must be paid to the knowledge layer: capturing procedural knowledge from practitioners, encoding it in formal representations, and building the infrastructure to make that knowledge available to AI systems at runtime. The practical workflow for leveraging PKO in AI applications involves several key steps. First, organizations must invest in systematic elicitation to surface the tacit procedural knowledge that currently exists only in human minds. The workshop-based methodology that informed PKO’s development provides a template. Second, the elicited knowledge must be encoded using ontological structures that support computational reasoning. PKO provides one such structure; organizations may adopt it directly, extend it for their specific domains, or use it as a reference for developing their own procedural ontologies. Third, the encoded knowledge must be integrated with AI systems through architectures like knowledge graph-empowered RAG that can ground AI responses in organizational reality. Building A Procedural Knowledge Infrastructure For readers considering similar implementations, PKO offers both a reusable artifact and a methodological template. The ontology itself is publicly available under a Creative Commons license at the permanent identifier https://w3id.org/pko, with the full repository hosted on GitHub.15 Organizations can adopt PKO directly for procedural knowledge representation, extend it with domain-specific modules, or study it as a reference implementation for their own ontology development efforts. The methodological lessons may prove equally valuable. PKO’s development follows the Linked Open Terms (LOT) methodology—a lightweight, iterative approach tailored for building ontologies in industrial domains.16 Key Aspects of the LOT Methodology include: Reuse-Based: Prioritizes leveraging existing ontologies and vocabularies (like CIDOC CRM or Transmodel) to build new ones, reducing duplication and fostering interoperability. Lightweight & Agile: Adapts to industrial needs, incorporating iterative cycles (like sprints) and focusing on practical application. The core workflow follows four main activities, often in iterations: Requirements Specification: Defining goals, target users, and competency questions. Implementation: Building the ontology, mapping data to RDF. Publication: Making the ontology available using Linked Data principles (unique URIs, semantic links). Maintenance: Ongoing upkeep and updates. Industrial Focus: Aims to integrate ontology development into the software industry, supported by projects like OntoCommons. LOT emphasizes starting from concrete use cases and requirements, engaging domain experts throughout the development process, reusing existing ontologies where possible, and iterating based on pilot implementations. Organizations embarking on their own procedural knowledge initiatives can apply these principles regardless of whether they adopt PKO itself. The GitHub repository includes resources for requirements specification, ontology versions and documentation, and evaluation materials.17 Organizations can use these resources to understand how PKO was developed and validated, informing their own ontology engineering efforts. Procedural Knowlege Is Not Boring Afterall This series began with a simple premise: process knowledge—the understanding of how work actually happens—represents a distinct and critical form of organizational intelligence that requires specialized management practices. We explored how to collect this knowledge, organize it into coherent structures, and encode it for computational consumption. We examined the historical erosion of process knowledge infrastructure in Western organizations and the urgent need to rebuild. The Procedural Knowledge Ontology demonstrates that this rebuilding is possible. By providing a formal framework for representing procedures and their executions, PKO makes explicit what was previously tacit, makes structured what was previously unorganized, and makes computationally accessible what was previously locked in human minds and static documents. The benefits are substantial: improved compliance with industrial processes and standards, reduced errors during procedure execution, better support for knowledge transfer and employee onboarding, and critically, the ability to leverage procedural knowledge in AI applications that require rich contextual understanding.18 PKO is a beginning, not an endpoint. Each organization must determine how to apply these principles in its own context, with its own procedures, its own legacy systems, and its own constraints. The work of capturing, organizing, encoding, and governing procedural knowledge is ongoing—a capability to be cultivated rather than a project to be completed. What we can say with confidence is that organizations that invest in procedural knowledge infrastructure will find themselves better positioned for an AI-augmented future. Those that don’t will continue to struggle with the gap between what AI systems promise and what they can actually deliver—a gap that can only be bridged with the kind of rich, structured, semantically grounded knowledge that ontologies like PKO enable. The “boring stuff” of process documentation, knowledge management, and semantic encoding turns out to be foundational infrastructure for intelligent systems. Perhaps it was never boring at all. So you thought we were done? Guess what? I will be releasing PART V of this four-part series. Part V is straight forward, step-by-step buide to building a PKO- based system. We will be looking at the build from the perspective of my fictious tech company, Acme Product Company. Stay tuned as I am putting together the guide and will be putting the finishing touches on it, this weekend 😊 While I know we want practical, how-do-I-build-this-thing instructions, we all need the foundations before we build the house. Mostly, because you cannot manage what you do not understand, and you cannot understand what you have not bothered to document. Process knowledge management is foundational for AI-dependent systems, institutional memory, and innovation. Organizations that recognize this and invest accordingly will build advantages that prove durable. Footnotes 🔗 Valentina Anita Carriero, Mario Scrocca, Ilaria Baroni, Antonia Azzini, Irene Celino, “Procedural Knowledge Ontology (PKO),” in *The Semantic Web: ESWC 2025*, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 14879 (Springer, 2025), 334-350. Also available at arXiv:2503.20634. The PKO paper abstract explicitly states this purpose: “PKO is built on requirements collected from three heterogeneous industrial use cases and can be exploited by any AI and data-driven tools that rely on a shared and interoperable representation to support the governance of PK throughout its life cycle.” Carriero et al., “Procedural Knowledge Ontology,” Section 1 (Introduction): “The effect is that this Procedural Knowledge (PK) remains tacit and, as such, difficult to exploit efficiently and effectively.” PKO GitHub repository, “Ontology purpose and scope,” https://github.com/perks-project/pk-ontology: “The Procedural Knowledge Ontology (PKO) is defined to support the holistic governance of procedural knowledge in its entire life cycle, from elicitation to management, from access to exploitation of explicit PK.” MIT Sloan Management Review. (n.d.). Just a The 5 biggest AI adoption challenges for 2025. Retrieved December 18, 2025, from https://sloanreview.mit.edu/article/whats-your-edge-rethinking-expertise-in-the-age-of-ai/ The ontology distinguishes between procedures (abstract specifications) and executions (concrete instances), following the P-Plan extension of PROV-O. See Carriero et al., “Procedural Knowledge Ontology,” Section 5. PKO GitHub repository describes the modular structure: “The core module focuses on representing procedures, steps, executions, and related concepts. A separate ‘industry’ module includes concepts specific to the industrial domain, such as machines, equipment, and safety procedures.” The reused ontologies include PROV-O (provenance), P-Plan (plans and executions), DCAT (dataset metadata), DCMI Metadata Terms, and the Time Ontology. See Moonlight literature review, “Procedural Knowledge Ontology (PKO),” https://www.themoonlight.io/en/review/procedural-knowledge-ontology-pko. Carriero et al., Section 4: “We performed a sequence of hands-on workshops to collect the necessary input to develop the ontology from domain experts and expected users of three different industrial scenarios.” The paper shares that “a web-based tool has been developed to guide domain experts in documenting procedures using PKO, effectively turning tacit knowledge into explicit, structured data.” See Carriero et al., Section 7 (Applications). The exploitation application is described as “a chatbot has been implemented that uses the PKO-based knowledge graph to answer questions about procedures, providing industrial operators with quick access to relevant information. This is implemented as a KG-empowered RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation) pipeline.” Qiushi Cao and Irlan Grangel-González, “A Knowledge Graph-based Approach for the Quality Management of Bosch Products,” in *Proceedings of the 22nd International Semantic Web Conference (ISWC 2023)*, CEUR Workshop Proceedings vol. 3632 (2023): “By the use of our KG-based approach, we improve the efficiency of data analysis by 70% also for effort reduction and save around 200k EUR per year across Bosch factories.” GraphWise research on geospatial GraphRAG demonstrated accuracy improvements from 37% to 81%. See GraphWise, “GeoAI: How GraphRAG Unlocks Complex Geospatial Knowledge,” https://graphwise.ai/blog/geoai-how-graphrag-unlocks-complex-geospatial-knowledge/. The Moonlight review summarizes: “PKO was evaluated against standard ontology evaluation criteria, including accuracy, clarity, adaptability, completeness, efficiency, conciseness, consistency, and organizational fitness.” The ontology is available at the permanent W3ID identifier https://w3id.org/pko with the GitHub repository at https://github.com/perks-project/pk-ontology. Carriero et al., Section 3: “The development of PKO followed the Linked Open Terms (LOT) methodology.” The GitHub repository contains requirements, ontology files, evaluation materials, and documentation. Users can submit issues using the “Use case for PKO” template to indicate adoption and provide feedback. Carriero et al., Introduction: “Such PK management could result in (i) improved compliance with industrial processes and standards, limiting undesired errors when executing the procedures, with a potential positive impact on business objectives, functioning of industrial services and systems, costs, and employees’ safety; and (ii) additional support to knowledge transfer and (re)training/onboarding of (new) employees.” Process Knowledge Management, Part IV From Theory to Practice, The Procedural Knowledge Ontology A special thank you to the PERKS team at Cefriel. I appreciate the time Valentina Carriero, Mario Scrocca and Irene Celino. Your work in this space is brilliant. Introduction The first three essays in this series established the theoretical and methodological foundations for process knowledge management. We examined why process knowledge represents a distinct and critical form of organizational intelligence, explored collection strategies and organizing principles, and confronted the sobering history of how Western companies systematically outsourced not just work, but the very capacity to understand how things get built. Throughout, we learned how process knowledge—the understanding of how workflows and procedures actually function—requires explicit representation through ontologies to serve both human collaborators and AI systems. This final essay moves from theory to practice. We will examine a real ontology built to solve real industrial problems: the Procedural Knowledge Ontology (PKO), developed by researchers at Cefriel in collaboration with industrial partners including Beko Europe, Fagor Automation, and Siemens.1 By walking through PKOs use cases, we will see how the abstract concepts discussed in previous essays—tacit knowledge elicitation, semantic encoding, knowledge graph exploitation—manifest in concrete implementations that deliver measurable value. One of the most common use cases for AI implementations is based upon workflows. And every AI project inherently establishes workflows, some more complex than others. And when workflows change, it is difficult to maintain knowledge parity with the states of change, for lack of a logical knowledge model that can effectively communicate these alternations to machines. As we established in Part III, organizations that fail to capture and codify their procedural knowledge find themselves increasingly dependent on external systems and services, unable to leverage AI effectively. PKO represents a logical ontological methodology—a structured, semantic representation—that can be used by AI and data tools to manage procedural knowledge throughout its lifecycle.2 The Problem PKO Addresses In industrial settings, much like software and product development settings, procedural knowledge exists as both tacit and explicit process knowledge. Experienced operators carry in their heads the sequences, conditions, and judgment calls that make complex procedures work. This knowledge lives in practiced hands, as documentation, in margin notes in outdated manuals, and in the institutional memory of workers who may retire, or move on. The absence of cohesive, formalized knowledge representations of both tacit and explicit process knowledge has significant consequences. When procedural knowledge cannot be accessed or reused by machines and people, organizations face increased compliance risks, higher error rates during procedure execution, and substantial friction in training and onboarding new employees.3 The challenge of capturing processes as formalized procedures intensifies as organizations deploy AI systems that require that rich procedural context to function effectively—some of the context existing only in human minds. PKO addresses this challenge by providing a formal ontology for explicitly modeling and representing procedures, their executions, and related resources. Built on requirements collected from three heterogeneous industrial scenarios—safety procedures in manufacturing plants, CNC machine commissioning processes, and mixed human-machine activities in grid management—PKO offers a shared, interoperable representation that supports the governance of procedural knowledge throughout its entire life cycle.4 Why Do I Care About Industrial Processes? While you may not immediately relate industrial processes to software and product oriented processes, industrial engineering, software engineering, data engineering and product management share many core tenants related to engineering as a whole. All four practices and domains share practices and methodologies such as system optimization, process improvement, algorithmic thinking, data analysis, quality control, validation matrices, data modeling and structured problem-solving. In current development environments across domains and industries, artificial intelligence is narrowing the gaps between domain practices, revealing that procedural workflows and knowledge management are universal challenges. MIT Sloan Management Review terms this “the paradox of abundant knowledge” which includes human judgement (RHLF: Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback), the discovery of hidden knowledge (implicit and tacit knowledge) and the need for user and use case specific knowledge (curation and liquid knowledge able to meet user and use case needs, dynamically)5 A striking distinction and maybe where industrial engineering is ahead of software industry systems, lies in industrial engineering’s approach to automation. Industrial engineering tends towards first designing and building systems that are semi-automated, before unleashing a fully automated process or workflow into a system. This is a disciplined approach that values subject matter expert feedback loops . This approach helps system designers architect with clear intentions to achieve specific outcomes while prioritizing the human beneficiaries and end users. A procedural knowledge management system is thus engineered to support humans and machines, to support workflows and processes. LOTO: Safety Procedures at Beko Europe To understand how PKO works in practice, let us examine one of its foundational use cases: Lockout/Tagout (LOTO) safety procedures at Beko Europe, a major home appliance manufacturer. LOTO procedures are critical safety protocols that ensure machinery is properly shut down and cannot be restarted during maintenance or servicing activities. These procedures are legally mandated, rigorously documented, and absolutely essential for worker safety. Yet despite their importance, LOTO procedures exemplify the process knowledge problem. The formal documentation tells operators what steps to perform, but the tacit knowledge of how to actually execute those steps—which panels to access first, which sequence minimizes risk, what warning signs indicate incomplete lockout—often exists only in the experience of veteran maintenance workers. New employees must learn through apprenticeship, shadowing experienced colleagues until the procedural knowledge becomes embodied in their own practice. Before PKO, this situation created several operational challenges. Knowledge transfer depended on the availability of experienced workers. Procedural documentation lagged behind actual practice. Consistency varied between shifts and facilities. And critically, there was no mechanism to make this procedural knowledge available to computational systems that might assist workers in executing complex safety protocols. PKO’s Architecture and Design The PKO ontology provides a structured framework for representing procedures and their executions. Understanding its architecture illuminates how abstract ontological concepts translate into practical knowledge management tools. At its core, PKO distinguishes between procedures (abstract specifications of how to accomplish something) and executions (concrete instances of those procedures being performed).6 This mirrors the distinction we made in earlier essays between process knowledge as pattern and process knowledge as practice. A LOTO procedure might specify the general steps for shutting down a conveyor system. A LOTO execution represents a specific maintenance technician performing that lockout on a specific date with specific observations and outcomes. PKO’s modular design includes a core module for representing procedures, steps, executions, and related concepts, plus an industry-specific module containing concepts particular to manufacturing contexts—machines, equipment, safety requirements, and regulatory frameworks.7 This modularity proves essential for extensibility; organizations can adopt the core procedural concepts while developing domain-specific extensions for their particular operational contexts. PKO Ontology Specifics The ontology reuses and extends several existing semantic standards, following best practices for ontology engineering. PROV-O provides general provenance information about agents, activities, and entities. P-Plan extends PROV-O for modeling plans and plan executions. DCAT handles metadata about resources. The Time Ontology represents temporal concepts critical to understanding when procedures are executed and how long steps take.8 @prefix adms: <http://www.w3.org/ns/adms#> . @prefix bibo: <http://purl.org/ontology/bibo/> . @prefix dcat: <http://www.w3.org/ns/dcat#> . @prefix dcterms: <http://purl.org/dc/terms/> . @prefix m4ing: <http://w3id.org/nfdi4ing/metadata4ing#> . @prefix mod: <https://w3id.org/mod#> . @prefix owl: <http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#> . @prefix pko: <https://w3id.org/pko#> . @prefix pplan: <http://purl.org/net/p-plan#> . @prefix pro: <http://purl.org/spar/pro/> . @prefix prov: <http://www.w3.org/ns/prov#> . @prefix rdf: <http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#> . @prefix rdfs: <http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#> . @prefix schema: <https://schema.org/> . @prefix time: <http://www.w3.org/2006/time#> . @prefix vann: <http://purl.org/vocab/vann/> . @prefix xsd: <http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#> . This reuse ensures interoperability with other semantic systems and reduces the conceptual overhead for organizations already working with linked data standards. Before : Tacit Knowledge and Limitations To appreciate PKO’s impact, we must understand the “as-is” scenario it addresses. In the pre-PKO state, Beko Europe’s LOTO procedures existed primarily in two forms: formal documentation mandated by safety regulations, and tacit knowledge held by experienced maintenance personnel. The formal documentation provided necessary legal compliance but offered limited operational value. Procedures were written in natural language, stored in static documents, and updated infrequently. There was no mechanism for capturing variations, exceptions, or the contextual wisdom that experienced workers brought to procedure execution. The documents told workers to “de-energize the main power supply” without encoding the dozens of micro-decisions that experienced technicians make automatically—which indicators to check, what sounds to listen for, how to verify complete isolation. Knowledge transfer happened through traditional apprenticeship: new technicians shadowed experienced ones, gradually absorbing procedural knowledge through observation and guided practice. This approach works, but scales poorly. When multiple new hires arrive simultaneously, or when experienced workers retire before adequate knowledge transfer can occur, institutional memory erodes. Perhaps most critically, there was no pathway for computational systems to access procedural knowledge. The AI systems that might assist workers—providing real-time guidance, verifying procedure completion, flagging potential safety issues—had no structured representation of procedures to reason over. The knowledge existed in human minds and static documents, neither of which AI systems could readily consume. Sound familiar? After: Explicit, Actionable Procedural Knowledge PKO’s implementation transformed Beko Europe’s landscape, by making procedural knowledge explicit, structured, and computationally accessible. The transformation began with a systematic elicitation process. Following the Linked Open Terms (LOT) methodology, the PKO development team conducted hands-on workshops with domain experts from each industrial use case.9 These workshops employed the techniques we discussed in Part II: structured interviews to capture formal procedure specifications, observation and ethnography to surface tacit knowledge, and collaborative sessions to reconcile different perspectives on how procedures actually work. The elicited knowledge was then encoded using PKO’s ontological framework. LOTO procedures became instances of the PKO Procedure class, with individual steps represented as ordered sequences of activities. Each step carried metadata about required resources, preconditions, expected duration, and responsible actors. Crucially, the encoding captured not just the normative procedure but variations and exceptions—what to do when standard approaches don’t work, how to handle equipment in non-standard configurations, which warning signs require immediate escalation. This encoded knowledge now lives in a knowledge graph that can be queried, validated, and reasoned over computationally. The procedural knowledge that previously existed only in human minds became a shared asset that both human workers and AI systems could access. Practical Elicitation and Exploitation PKO’s value manifests through two primary application categories: tools for eliciting procedural knowledge from domain experts, and systems for exploiting that knowledge in operational contexts. For elicitation, the PKO team developed a web-based tool that guides domain experts through the process of documenting procedures using PKO’s structure.10 The tool provides a user-friendly interface that hides the complexity of the underlying knowledge graph. Experts can specify steps, define sequences, attach resources, and encode conditional logic without needing to understand OWL syntax or RDF triples. The tool effectively translates expert knowledge into semantic form, turning tacit understanding into explicit, structured data. This approach addresses one of the key challenges we identified in Part II: the difficulty of knowledge acquisition when domain experts lack familiarity with semantic technologies. By providing an intuitive interface, the elicitation tool reduces the friction of capturing procedural knowledge while ensuring the resulting representations conform to PKO’s formal structure. For exploitation, the PKO team implemented a chatbot that uses the PKO-based knowledge graph to answer questions about procedures.11 This chatbot, developed on a conversational AI platform empowered by knowledge graphs, provides industrial operators with quick access to relevant procedural information. A maintenance technician preparing for a LOTO procedure can query the system about specific steps, required resources, or safety considerations, receiving responses grounded in the organization’s actual procedural knowledge rather than generic AI-generated content. The chatbot implementation follows a knowledge graph-empowered Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) architecture—precisely the approach we discussed in Part II as a promising pattern for integrating process knowledge with AI systems. By grounding AI responses in formally represented procedural knowledge, the system delivers accurate, contextually appropriate guidance while maintaining the traceability that industrial safety applications require. Measured Impact: What the Evidence Shows The value of ontology-based procedural knowledge management extends beyond Beko Europe’s specific implementation. Research across industrial knowledge graph deployments provides compelling evidence for the approach’s effectiveness. Bosch’s implementation of knowledge graph solutions for quality management in electronics manufacturing demonstrated a 70% improvement in data analysis efficiency and cost savings of approximately €200,000 annually across their factories.12 While this implementation focused on product quality rather than procedural knowledge specifically, it validates the broader principle that semantic data integration delivers measurable operational benefits. The efficiency gains compound when procedural knowledge becomes accessible to AI systems. As we noted in Part II, GraphRAG—retrieval augmented generation using graph-structured knowledge—achieves dramatically higher accuracy than LLM-based approaches operating without structured knowledge. Research on geospatial applications showed accuracy improvements from 37% to 81% when connecting language models to structured knowledge graphs.13 While these specific numbers come from a different domain, they illustrate the general pattern: AI systems perform substantially better when they can ground their reasoning in formally represented knowledge rather than relying solely on statistical patterns. For PKO specifically, early validation demonstrates that the ontology meets defined requirements and represents procedural concepts effectively. The ontology has been evaluated through automatic consistency checks, criteria-based assessment covering accuracy, clarity, adaptability, completeness, and organizational fitness, and task-based evaluation using the competency questions that guided its development.14 Implications for AI Workflows The PKO case study illuminates a broader truth about AI in industrial contexts: effective AI deployment requires a rich knowledge infrastructure. The AI systems that will deliver lasting value are those grounded in formally represented organizational knowledge—the procedures, constraints, and contextual wisdom that experienced workers carry. This has profound implications for how organizations approach AI adoption. Many current deployments focus on the AI layer itself—selecting models, fine-tuning performance, optimizing prompts. PKO suggests that equal attention must be paid to the knowledge layer: capturing procedural knowledge from practitioners, encoding it in formal representations, and building the infrastructure to make that knowledge available to AI systems at runtime. The practical workflow for leveraging PKO in AI applications involves several key steps. First, organizations must invest in systematic elicitation to surface the tacit procedural knowledge that currently exists only in human minds. The workshop-based methodology that informed PKO’s development provides a template. Second, the elicited knowledge must be encoded using ontological structures that support computational reasoning. PKO provides one such structure; organizations may adopt it directly, extend it for their specific domains, or use it as a reference for developing their own procedural ontologies. Third, the encoded knowledge must be integrated with AI systems through architectures like knowledge graph-empowered RAG that can ground AI responses in organizational reality. Building A Procedural Knowledge Infrastructure For readers considering similar implementations, PKO offers both a reusable artifact and a methodological template. The ontology itself is publicly available under a Creative Commons license at the permanent identifier https://w3id.org/pko, with the full repository hosted on GitHub.15 Organizations can adopt PKO directly for procedural knowledge representation, extend it with domain-specific modules, or study it as a reference implementation for their own ontology development efforts. The methodological lessons may prove equally valuable. PKO’s development follows the Linked Open Terms (LOT) methodology—a lightweight, iterative approach tailored for building ontologies in industrial domains.16 Key Aspects of the LOT Methodology include: Reuse-Based: Prioritizes leveraging existing ontologies and vocabularies (like CIDOC CRM or Transmodel) to build new ones, reducing duplication and fostering interoperability. Lightweight & Agile: Adapts to industrial needs, incorporating iterative cycles (like sprints) and focusing on practical application. The core workflow follows four main activities, often in iterations: Requirements Specification: Defining goals, target users, and competency questions. Implementation: Building the ontology, mapping data to RDF. Publication: Making the ontology available using Linked Data principles (unique URIs, semantic links). Maintenance: Ongoing upkeep and updates. Industrial Focus: Aims to integrate ontology development into the software industry, supported by projects like OntoCommons. LOT emphasizes starting from concrete use cases and requirements, engaging domain experts throughout the development process, reusing existing ontologies where possible, and iterating based on pilot implementations. Organizations embarking on their own procedural knowledge initiatives can apply these principles regardless of whether they adopt PKO itself. The GitHub repository includes resources for requirements specification, ontology versions and documentation, and evaluation materials.17 Organizations can use these resources to understand how PKO was developed and validated, informing their own ontology engineering efforts. Procedural Knowlege Is Not Boring Afterall This series began with a simple premise: process knowledge—the understanding of how work actually happens—represents a distinct and critical form of organizational intelligence that requires specialized management practices. We explored how to collect this knowledge, organize it into coherent structures, and encode it for computational consumption. We examined the historical erosion of process knowledge infrastructure in Western organizations and the urgent need to rebuild. The Procedural Knowledge Ontology demonstrates that this rebuilding is possible. By providing a formal framework for representing procedures and their executions, PKO makes explicit what was previously tacit, makes structured what was previously unorganized, and makes computationally accessible what was previously locked in human minds and static documents. The benefits are substantial: improved compliance with industrial processes and standards, reduced errors during procedure execution, better support for knowledge transfer and employee onboarding, and critically, the ability to leverage procedural knowledge in AI applications that require rich contextual understanding.18 PKO is a beginning, not an endpoint. Each organization must determine how to apply these principles in its own context, with its own procedures, its own legacy systems, and its own constraints. The work of capturing, organizing, encoding, and governing procedural knowledge is ongoing—a capability to be cultivated rather than a project to be completed. What we can say with confidence is that organizations that invest in procedural knowledge infrastructure will find themselves better positioned for an AI-augmented future. Those that don’t will continue to struggle with the gap between what AI systems promise and what they can actually deliver—a gap that can only be bridged with the kind of rich, structured, semantically grounded knowledge that ontologies like PKO enable. The “boring stuff” of process documentation, knowledge management, and semantic encoding turns out to be foundational infrastructure for intelligent systems. Perhaps it was never boring at all. So you thought we were done? Guess what? I will be releasing PART V of this four-part series. Part V is straight forward, step-by-step buide to building a PKO- based system. We will be looking at the build from the perspective of my fictious tech company, Acme Product Company. Stay tuned as I am putting together the guide and will be putting the finishing touches on it, this weekend 😊 While I know we want practical, how-do-I-build-this-thing instructions, we all need the foundations before we build the house. Mostly, because you cannot manage what you do not understand, and you cannot understand what you have not bothered to document. Process knowledge management is foundational for AI-dependent systems, institutional memory, and innovation. Organizations that recognize this and invest accordingly will build advantages that prove durable. Footnotes 🔗 Valentina Anita Carriero, Mario Scrocca, Ilaria Baroni, Antonia Azzini, Irene Celino, “Procedural Knowledge Ontology (PKO),” in *The Semantic Web: ESWC 2025*, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 14879 (Springer, 2025), 334-350. Also available at arXiv:2503.20634. The PKO paper abstract explicitly states this purpose: “PKO is built on requirements collected from three heterogeneous industrial use cases and can be exploited by any AI and data-driven tools that rely on a shared and interoperable representation to support the governance of PK throughout its life cycle.” Carriero et al., “Procedural Knowledge Ontology,” Section 1 (Introduction): “The effect is that this Procedural Knowledge (PK) remains tacit and, as such, difficult to exploit efficiently and effectively.” PKO GitHub repository, “Ontology purpose and scope,” https://github.com/perks-project/pk-ontology: “The Procedural Knowledge Ontology (PKO) is defined to support the holistic governance of procedural knowledge in its entire life cycle, from elicitation to management, from access to exploitation of explicit PK.” MIT Sloan Management Review. (n.d.). Just a The 5 biggest AI adoption challenges for 2025. Retrieved December 18, 2025, from https://sloanreview.mit.edu/article/whats-your-edge-rethinking-expertise-in-the-age-of-ai/ The ontology distinguishes between procedures (abstract specifications) and executions (concrete instances), following the P-Plan extension of PROV-O. See Carriero et al., “Procedural Knowledge Ontology,” Section 5. PKO GitHub repository describes the modular structure: “The core module focuses on representing procedures, steps, executions, and related concepts. A separate ‘industry’ module includes concepts specific to the industrial domain, such as machines, equipment, and safety procedures.” The reused ontologies include PROV-O (provenance), P-Plan (plans and executions), DCAT (dataset metadata), DCMI Metadata Terms, and the Time Ontology. See Moonlight literature review, “Procedural Knowledge Ontology (PKO),” https://www.themoonlight.io/en/review/procedural-knowledge-ontology-pko. Carriero et al., Section 4: “We performed a sequence of hands-on workshops to collect the necessary input to develop the ontology from domain experts and expected users of three different industrial scenarios.” The paper shares that “a web-based tool has been developed to guide domain experts in documenting procedures using PKO, effectively turning tacit knowledge into explicit, structured data.” See Carriero et al., Section 7 (Applications). The exploitation application is described as “a chatbot has been implemented that uses the PKO-based knowledge graph to answer questions about procedures, providing industrial operators with quick access to relevant information. This is implemented as a KG-empowered RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation) pipeline.” Qiushi Cao and Irlan Grangel-González, “A Knowledge Graph-based Approach for the Quality Management of Bosch Products,” in *Proceedings of the 22nd International Semantic Web Conference (ISWC 2023)*, CEUR Workshop Proceedings vol. 3632 (2023): “By the use of our KG-based approach, we improve the efficiency of data analysis by 70% also for effort reduction and save around 200k EUR per year across Bosch factories.” GraphWise research on geospatial GraphRAG demonstrated accuracy improvements from 37% to 81%. See GraphWise, “GeoAI: How GraphRAG Unlocks Complex Geospatial Knowledge,” https://graphwise.ai/blog/geoai-how-graphrag-unlocks-complex-geospatial-knowledge/. The Moonlight review summarizes: “PKO was evaluated against standard ontology evaluation criteria, including accuracy, clarity, adaptability, completeness, efficiency, conciseness, consistency, and organizational fitness.” The ontology is available at the permanent W3ID identifier https://w3id.org/pko with the GitHub repository at https://github.com/perks-project/pk-ontology. Carriero et al., Section 3: “The development of PKO followed the Linked Open Terms (LOT) methodology.” The GitHub repository contains requirements, ontology files, evaluation materials, and documentation. Users can submit issues using the “Use case for PKO” template to indicate adoption and provide feedback. Carriero et al., Introduction: “Such PK management could result in (i) improved compliance with industrial processes and standards, limiting undesired errors when executing the procedures, with a potential positive impact on business objectives, functioning of industrial services and systems, costs, and employees’ safety; and (ii) additional support to knowledge transfer and (re)training/onboarding of (new) employees.”
