Book Beat aims to highlight other books that we may hear about through friends, social media, or other sources. We could see a gorgeous ad! Or find a new-to-us author on a list of underrated romances! Think of Book Beat as Teen Beat or Tiger Beat, but for books. And no staples to open to get the fold-out poster. A Far Better Thing Author: H.G. Parry Released: June 17, 2025 by Tor Books Genre: Historical: European, Science Fiction/Fantasy Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell meets A Tale of Two Cities in H. G. Parry’s A Far Better Thing , a heart-rending fantasy of faery revenge set during the French Revolution. Most Anticipated SSF Books 2025—The Nerd Daily, BookPage I feared this was the best of times; I hoped it could not get any worse. The faeries stole Sydney Carton as a child, and made him a mortal servant of the Faery Realm. Now, he has a rare opportunity for revenge against the fae and Charles Darnay, the changeling left in his stead. It will take magic and cunning—cold iron and Realm silver—to hide his intentions from humans and fae and bring his plans to fruition. Shuttling between London and Paris during the Reign of Terror, generations of violence-begetting-violence lead him to a heartbreaking choice in the shadow of the guillotine. This is A Tale of Two Cities , but with fae magic and revenge! Add to Goodreads To-Read List → As an Amazon Associate we earn from qualifying purchases. We also may use affiliate links in our posts, as well. Thanks! The Forget-Me-Not Library Author: Heather Webber Released: November 4, 2025 by St. Martin's Press Genre: Chick Lit, Romance, Science Fiction/Fantasy A detour. A chance encounter. Two women who alter the pages of each other’s story. Juliet Nightingale is lucky to be alive. Months after a freak accident involving lightning, she’s fully recovered but is left feeling that something is missing from her life. Something big. Impulsively, she decides to take a solo summer road trip, hoping that the journey will lead her down a path that will help her discover exactly what it is that she’s searching for. Newly single mom Tallulah Byrd Mayfield is hanging by a thread after her neat, tidy world was completely undone when her husband decided that their marriage was over. In the aftermath of the breakup, she and her two daughters move in with her eighty-year-old grandfather. Tallulah starts a new job at the Forget-Me-Not Library, where old, treasured memories can be found within the books—and where Lu must learn to adapt to the many changes thrown her way. When a road detour leads Juliet to Forget-Me-Not, Alabama, and straight into Tallulah’s life, the two women soon discover there’s magic in between the pages of where you’ve been and where you still need to go. And that happiness, even when lost, can always be found again. Heather Webber’s books have been mentioned in the comments before. It’s often a blend of women’s fiction, small town settings, and cozy magical realism. This is her latest release and I felt like it flew under the radar. Add to Goodreads To-Read List → As an Amazon Associate we earn from qualifying purchases. We also may use affiliate links in our posts, as well. Thanks! House of Rayne Author: Harley Laroux Released: September 30, 2025 by Kensington Books Genre: Gothic, Horror, LGBTQIA, Romance, Science Fiction/Fantasy Gothic sapphic romance meets supernatural suspense on a remote island in the Pacific Northwest, as a night of forbidden passion opens a Pandora’s box of dangerous secrets and dark magic in this sinfully spicy, standalone novel by New York Times bestselling TikTok sensation, Harley Laroux. SALEM I wasn’t supposed to be here. I was supposed to be marrying my fiancé, looking forward to a tropical honeymoon. Instead, I found myself on a ferry headed for historic Balfour Manor on Blackridge Island, in the Pacific Northwest. Now I’m stranded, with a woman I’m irresistibly drawn to. Rayne holds secrets as dark and mysterious as her old house. Crimson shadows stalk the halls and strange voices call out in the night—but it’s she who haunts me most. Following a gruesome murder, the island’s true nature is revealed, and every night becomes a fight for survival. Something is stalking the forest, killing indiscriminately . . . And this time, we’re its prey. RAYNE Death has followed me since childhood. My mother’s murder and father’s violent death changed me, teaching me just how cruel the world could be. I never got what I wanted, until Salem showed up at my door. She’s adventurous, beautiful, and doomed if she stays here. Now, I suddenly have something to the woman who broke down my walls and saw through my mask, who showed me I’m worth loving. My family has long been buried, but even the vilest of secrets must be dug up again to survive the evil that hunts us. I finally have something to fight for, and I’ll do whatever it takes to save her. This is a Gothic f/f romance and I believe it gets pretty spooky. I saw a gorgeous special edition of this in a local bookstore. Add to Goodreads To-Read List → As an Amazon Associate we earn from qualifying purchases. We also may use affiliate links in our posts, as well. Thanks! The Underachiever’s Guide to Love and Saving the World Author: Sloane Brooks Released: September 30, 2025 by Atria Books Genre: Romance, Science Fiction/Fantasy The Hating Game meets Legends & Lattes in this captivating and hilarious fantasy rom-com with a twist about two enemies who must work together to return to their reality. Courtney’s only goal in life is to have no goals. A reformed overachiever, she’s content with her dead-end job and simple existence. And her “feud” with her neighbor Bryce brings her immense joy. Everything is perfect. Until Courtney and Bryce are pulled through a portal and flung into a fantasy world where they are met by a prophecy-obsessed sage who claims one of them must be the Chosen One destined to save them all from an unknown Evil One. Neither of them wants the job but also refuse to let the other have the glory. Unfortunately, in their efforts to save the world, they unleash more chaos by accidentally freeing a dragon, summoning an undead army, and almost poisoning their mentor with peanut butter. To return to their world, Courtney and Bryce—a snarky underachiever and a grumpy hermit—must charm and endear themselves to the people of this fantasy world (or each other) to be able to use magic. With time running out and the threat of the Evil One looming, they must work together to become worthy heroes if they ever want to make it home again. Or else be doomed to eternity in a universe without running water—and with each other—forever. Two neighbors who don’t get along get transported to a fantasy world. I’ve heard if you like a grumpy meets grumpier romance, this might appeal to you. Add to Goodreads To-Read List → As an Amazon Associate we earn from qualifying purchases. We also may use affiliate links in our posts, as well. Thanks! Book Beat aims to highlight other books that we may hear about through friends, social media, or other sources. We could see a gorgeous ad! Or find a new-to-us author on a list of underrated romances! Think of Book Beat as Teen Beat or Tiger Beat, but for books. And no staples to open to get the fold-out poster. A Far Better Thing Author: H.G. Parry Released: June 17, 2025 by Tor Books Genre: Historical: European, Science Fiction/Fantasy Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell meets A Tale of Two Cities in H. G. Parry’s A Far Better Thing , a heart-rending fantasy of faery revenge set during the French Revolution. Most Anticipated SSF Books 2025—The Nerd Daily, BookPage I feared this was the best of times; I hoped it could not get any worse. The faeries stole Sydney Carton as a child, and made him a mortal servant of the Faery Realm. Now, he has a rare opportunity for revenge against the fae and Charles Darnay, the changeling left in his stead. It will take magic and cunning—cold iron and Realm silver—to hide his intentions from humans and fae and bring his plans to fruition. Shuttling between London and Paris during the Reign of Terror, generations of violence-begetting-violence lead him to a heartbreaking choice in the shadow of the guillotine. This is A Tale of Two Cities , but with fae magic and revenge! Add to Goodreads To-Read List → As an Amazon Associate we earn from qualifying purchases. We also may use affiliate links in our posts, as well. Thanks! The Forget-Me-Not Library Author: Heather Webber Released: November 4, 2025 by St. Martin's Press Genre: Chick Lit, Romance, Science Fiction/Fantasy A detour. A chance encounter. Two women who alter the pages of each other’s story. Juliet Nightingale is lucky to be alive. Months after a freak accident involving lightning, she’s fully recovered but is left feeling that something is missing from her life. Something big. Impulsively, she decides to take a solo summer road trip, hoping that the journey will lead her down a path that will help her discover exactly what it is that she’s searching for. Newly single mom Tallulah Byrd Mayfield is hanging by a thread after her neat, tidy world was completely undone when her husband decided that their marriage was over. In the aftermath of the breakup, she and her two daughters move in with her eighty-year-old grandfather. Tallulah starts a new job at the Forget-Me-Not Library, where old, treasured memories can be found within the books—and where Lu must learn to adapt to the many changes thrown her way. When a road detour leads Juliet to Forget-Me-Not, Alabama, and straight into Tallulah’s life, the two women soon discover there’s magic in between the pages of where you’ve been and where you still need to go. And that happiness, even when lost, can always be found again. Heather Webber’s books have been mentioned in the comments before. It’s often a blend of women’s fiction, small town settings, and cozy magical realism. This is her latest release and I felt like it flew under the radar. Add to Goodreads To-Read List → As an Amazon Associate we earn from qualifying purchases. We also may use affiliate links in our posts, as well. Thanks! House of Rayne Author: Harley Laroux Released: September 30, 2025 by Kensington Books Genre: Gothic, Horror, LGBTQIA, Romance, Science Fiction/Fantasy Gothic sapphic romance meets supernatural suspense on a remote island in the Pacific Northwest, as a night of forbidden passion opens a Pandora’s box of dangerous secrets and dark magic in this sinfully spicy, standalone novel by New York Times bestselling TikTok sensation, Harley Laroux. SALEM I wasn’t supposed to be here. I was supposed to be marrying my fiancé, looking forward to a tropical honeymoon. Instead, I found myself on a ferry headed for historic Balfour Manor on Blackridge Island, in the Pacific Northwest. Now I’m stranded, with a woman I’m irresistibly drawn to. Rayne holds secrets as dark and mysterious as her old house. Crimson shadows stalk the halls and strange voices call out in the night—but it’s she who haunts me most. Following a gruesome murder, the island’s true nature is revealed, and every night becomes a fight for survival. Something is stalking the forest, killing indiscriminately . . . And this time, we’re its prey. RAYNE Death has followed me since childhood. My mother’s murder and father’s violent death changed me, teaching me just how cruel the world could be. I never got what I wanted, until Salem showed up at my door. She’s adventurous, beautiful, and doomed if she stays here. Now, I suddenly have something to the woman who broke down my walls and saw through my mask, who showed me I’m worth loving. My family has long been buried, but even the vilest of secrets must be dug up again to survive the evil that hunts us. I finally have something to fight for, and I’ll do whatever it takes to save her. This is a Gothic f/f romance and I believe it gets pretty spooky. I saw a gorgeous special edition of this in a local bookstore. Add to Goodreads To-Read List → As an Amazon Associate we earn from qualifying purchases. We also may use affiliate links in our posts, as well. Thanks! The Underachiever’s Guide to Love and Saving the World Author: Sloane Brooks Released: September 30, 2025 by Atria Books Genre: Romance, Science Fiction/Fantasy The Hating Game meets Legends & Lattes in this captivating and hilarious fantasy rom-com with a twist about two enemies who must work together to return to their reality. Courtney’s only goal in life is to have no goals. A reformed overachiever, she’s content with her dead-end job and simple existence. And her “feud” with her neighbor Bryce brings her immense joy. Everything is perfect. Until Courtney and Bryce are pulled through a portal and flung into a fantasy world where they are met by a prophecy-obsessed sage who claims one of them must be the Chosen One destined to save them all from an unknown Evil One. Neither of them wants the job but also refuse to let the other have the glory. Unfortunately, in their efforts to save the world, they unleash more chaos by accidentally freeing a dragon, summoning an undead army, and almost poisoning their mentor with peanut butter. To return to their world, Courtney and Bryce—a snarky underachiever and a grumpy hermit—must charm and endear themselves to the people of this fantasy world (or each other) to be able to use magic. With time running out and the threat of the Evil One looming, they must work together to become worthy heroes if they ever want to make it home again. Or else be doomed to eternity in a universe without running water—and with each other—forever. Two neighbors who don’t get along get transported to a fantasy world. I’ve heard if you like a grumpy meets grumpier romance, this might appeal to you. Add to Goodreads To-Read List → As an Amazon Associate we earn from qualifying purchases. We also may use affiliate links in our posts, as well. Thanks!
