Technical Writer Automation has become a critical part of modern software development and operations. From syncing data between tools to triggering complex business processes, teams increasingly rely on workflow automation platforms to reduce manual effort and errors. n8n (pronounced “n-eight-n” ) is a powerful, open-source workflow automation tool that allows you to connect apps, services, and APIs to create flexible, scalable workflows. Unlike many no-code or low-code automation tools, n8n is developer-friendly , highly customizable, and can be self-hosted , giving you full control over your data and infrastructure. Whether you’re a solo developer, a startup, or an enterprise team, n8n can act as the backbone of your automation stack. n8n is an open-source, node-based workflow automation platform where each step in a workflow is represented as a node. It’s similar to tools like Zapier, but far more flexible and better suited for building advanced, AI-driven automation workflows. If you’re not using AI automation tools in your day-to-day work, you’re likely missing out on significant efficiency gains. With n8n, you can easily connect apps, services, and APIs. Using DigitalOcean’s 1-Click App, n8n can be deployed instantly on a secure and scalable DigitalOcean Droplet, with no complex setup required. The visual workflow builder lets you create custom automations quickly and efficiently. Each node can trigger actions, process and transform data, call APIs, or apply logic, allowing you to build powerful, end-to-end automation workflows. N8n can help you with any type of automations, for example: n8n workflows are built visually and executed sequentially or conditionally. Once you have successfully logged in, you can start building the automation workflow from scratch, or you can try an AI workflow as well. Trigger Nodes: Triggers basically allow you to kick-start your workflows. You will be able to choose from different triggers. For example: Start a workflow Examples: On app event trigger On a schedule trigger On chat message trigger Consider this as the starting point, and from here you can actually build all the connected actions once the trigger is activated. Trigger nodes start a workflow, and Action nodes execute the work. Perform tasks Examples: Create a on form submission Fill out an Excel sheet with details from a form submission Create a database record Call a REST API Logic Nodes: Logic nodes in n8n control how your workflow behaves. They decide which path to take, how data is combined, or when certain steps should run. Control workflow behavior Examples: IF conditions Switch Merge filter Looping Example: orderAmount > 5000 How it works: Takes input data Evaluates if conditions Splits workflow into True and False paths Code Nodes: Code nodes in n8n let you write custom JavaScript inside your workflow. They are used when built-in nodes aren’t flexible enough to handle your logic or data transformation. Write custom JavaScript or Python Useful for: Data transformations Custom logic Advanced calculations Use a Code node when: Avoid it when a simple Set or IF node can do the job (Simpler workflows are easier to maintain.) Each item looks like: { "json": { "name": "Shaoni", "score": 82 } } adduser <username> usermod -aG sudo <username> Set up SSH keys and log in as the new user git clone https://github.com/n8n-io/n8n-docker-caddy.git cd n8n-docker-caddy sudo docker volume create caddy_data sudo docker volume create n8n_data sudo ufw allow 80 sudo ufw allow 443 nano .env nano caddy_config/Caddyfile sudo docker compose up -d Open your subdomain in a browser and log in, This gives you a secure, self-hosted n8n instance on DigitalOcean with HTTPS and persistent data. It is also recommended to add the API keys to your account to actually start running things hassle-free. Deployment Option Description n8n Cloud Fully managed hosting by n8n. Offers quick setup with no infrastructure maintenance, making it ideal for individuals and small teams who want to start building workflows immediately. Self-Hosting Deploy n8n on virtual machines, Docker, or Kubernetes. Provides full control over security, data, and scaling, and is best suited for teams that require customization and ownership of their infrastructure. Yes. The open-source version of n8n is free and can be self-hosted without licensing fees. The cloud-hosted version follows a subscription model. Basic workflows require no coding , but having JavaScript or API knowledge helps when building advanced logic, custom transformations, or integrations. n8n differs from Zapier by offering significantly more flexibility and control. As an open-source platform, n8n allows self-hosting, giving users full ownership of their data and infrastructure, along with the ability to deeply customize workflows. It supports advanced logic, conditional flows, and custom code, making it well-suited for complex automation use cases. Zapier, on the other hand, is designed for simplicity and ease of use, which makes it accessible for beginners but limits deeper customization. Additionally, Zapier’s pricing can become expensive as workflow complexity and usage scale increase, whereas n8n is more cost-effective for advanced and large-scale automation needs. Yes, n8n can handle large-scale workflows effectively. It supports queue-based execution, allowing workflows to be processed asynchronously and reliably at scale. With horizontal scaling, n8n can run across multiple instances to handle increased workload and traffic. Its ability to manage high-throughput automation makes it well-suited for production environments and enterprise-grade use cases where reliability and performance are critical. Yes, n8n is secure when properly deployed and configured. It encrypts stored credentials to protect sensitive information and supports secure authentication methods for connecting to third-party services. Additionally, the option to self-host n8n gives organizations full control over their data and infrastructure, ensuring greater data privacy and compliance with internal security requirements. Absolutely. n8n can be effectively used for AI and LLM workflows, making it a popular choice for modern automation use cases. It is well-suited for orchestrating large language models, building retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) pipelines, coordinating AI agent workflows, and automating batch inference processes. Its flexibility, support for custom code, and seamless integration with external APIs allow teams to design and scale complex AI-driven workflows with ease. 7. Does n8n support webhooks? Yes. Webhooks are a core feature and are often used as workflow triggers for real-time automation. Yes. Developers can create custom nodes to integrate internal tools or unsupported services. It can be, but n8n is best suited for technical users or teams with developer support , especially for complex workflows. n8n is commonly used in: n8n is a powerful, flexible, and developer-first automation platform that bridges the gap between no-code tools and fully custom engineering solutions. Its open-source nature, scalability, and deep customization make it an excellent choice for teams building serious automation workflows, especially in modern AI-driven and cloud-native environments. Thanks for learning with the DigitalOcean Community. Check out our offerings for compute, storage, networking, and managed databases. With a strong background in data science and over six years of experience, I am passionate about creating in-depth content on technologies. Currently focused on AI, machine learning, and GPU computing, working on topics ranging from deep learning frameworks to optimizing GPU-based workloads. This textbox defaults to using Markdown to format your answer. You can type !ref in this text area to quickly search our full set of tutorials, documentation & marketplace offerings and insert the link! Get paid to write technical tutorials and select a tech-focused charity to receive a matching donation. Full documentation for every DigitalOcean product. The Wave has everything you need to know about building a business, from raising funding to marketing your product. Stay up to date by signing up for DigitalOcean’s Infrastructure as a Newsletter. New accounts only. By submitting your email you agree to our Privacy Policy Scale up as you grow — whether you're running one virtual machine or ten thousand. Sign up and get $200 in credit for your first 60 days with DigitalOcean.* *This promotional offer applies to new accounts only.
