On-premise UI Bakery. Self-host UI Bakery in your private network, locally or in cloud platforms like AWS, Google Cloud, and Microsoft Azure. Copy and run the command below in terminal to start: curl -k -L -o install.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/uibakery/self-hosted/main/install.sh && bash ./install.sh Explore other installation options and configuration capabilities. When you need an additional security level. The on-premises solution is air-gapped, ensuring no analytics collection and meeting compliance standards like HIPAA, SOC2, and PCI. You have full control over performance by managing your infrastructure and deployment environment. Docker-based Effortlessly acquire UI Bakery's on-premise version as a couple of Docker containers for simplified integration and management. Built-in database Employ the built-in MySQL database for data storage, or adjust the configuration to connect with a cloud database for enhanced flexibility. Set up UI Bakery on-premises in minutes. Deploy your UI Bakery app locally, connect to your database or APIs. Start building your internal tool, invite team members and other users. Choose any of the options: Set up SSO with Google or SAML providers. Improve your security with SSO. Allow your users to log into your app using only one set of credentials. Sign in with SAML-based identity providers like Google, Okta, and others. Import groups to use them in UI Bakery. Deploy your app on a custom domain. Ship and host your app on a custom domain. Control all the activities happening inside UI Bakery. Store your data on your VPS without worrying about security. Domain identity Use a corporate domain to let your users recognize the organization. Access сontrol Limit access to your domain based on the defined firewall settings. Check all features in on-premise version: x10 times faster than classic development. The UI Bakery platform offers a cost-effective approach to creating applications. With UI Bakery, you can achieve your app development goals without breaking the bank. Dominik Amman / Solution Architect
