The Comforting Myth of Effortless AI There’s a low, persistent hum in the air if you work anywhere near AI these days. I’m not talking about the loud stuff (e.g. “AGI in five years”, “50% of jobs disappearing tomorrow”). It’s much quieter. A subtle siren song of sorts. It goes something like: The hardest problems are already on their way to being solved. The friction you’re feeling now is temporary. If you just wait a little bit longer, the models will improve and all those integration headaches will go away. It sounds reasonable. Why spend time on solving problems that might disappear on their own? Why build complex systems when the ground is still shifting underneath you? This is the myth of “effortless AI”. The idea that the messy, unglamorous work of stitching new capabilities into real systems will soon be trivial if not outright obsolete. The myth says: the real innovation is happening at the model layer, the infrastructure layer – that it’s happening fast, and it’s being done elsewhere. Your job isn’t to solve hard problems, it’s to wait for the hard problems to get solved for you, then plug in the solutions when they’re ready. What makes this tricky to talk about is that different strains of AI discourse overlap and twist around each other. You’ll see leaders from big AI labs warn about imminent societal collapse, politicians parrot similar talking points, books with press tours heralding dystopia...all against the backdrop of investment and infrastructure buildouts continuing at dizzying levels. These narratives reinforce each other and mix together into a general atmosphere of not just perpetual substantial advancement of AI but anticipated swift, widespread adoption and integration of it. When I say “effortless AI”, I’m talking about that second part. The adoption and integration. And specifically from the perspective of those who will make up the lion’s share of it: enterprises. Right now you may be thinking, “Who actually says implementing AI is effortless? I just saw Andrej Karpathy and Ilya Sutskever talking about how hard this stuff is and how many unsolved problems there are.” And you’re right. Many of us working in the field know better. But it’s seldom stated so bluntly. That’s part of what makes it tricky. It’s hard to show absence. It’s hard to show the voided interstitial space where you’d expect more substance. It’s in the “but” that always follows any acknowledgment of difficulty. In the conversational scurry to safety: “but there’s new updates every week”, “it’s all changing so fast”, “we need to be ready”, “this is the worst it’ll ever be”. Don’t get me wrong, I do this too. That’s part of why I wanted to explore this. We launder the narrative of effortless AI by what we’re not saying. And that’s what can make it hard to nail down. Learned Innovationlessness “Effortless AI” is a comforting story. It takes the pressure off. It tells you that it’s fine to not have anything figured out yet, it’s just temporary. It allows us to conflate inaction with patience, disengagement with prudence. But narratives shape behavior. And one behavior I keep seeing, in client conversations, in industry discourse, in the way some teams approach AI projects, is a kind of... “learned innovationlessness”. It’s this strange paralysis where some people have convinced themselves that unless you’re working at the model layer then you’re incapable of “real” innovation. Everything else is derivative. Doomed to be absorbed by the next model release or the next framework or whatever OpenAI, Google, or Anthropic announces next quarter. To be clear, the belief isn’t just “AI will get better”. That’s a given. The belief is “AI will get better without me , and therefore I don’t need to act.” If you squint then it might look like optimism. But it’s more of an optimistic type of fatalism. It removes personal agency. It devalues context-specific engineering and creativity. It frames innovation as unnecessary and offloads responsibility to labs and vendors. It convinces people that their own domain knowledge, their own hard-won understanding of their business, their systems, their constraints, and their customers is really of no consequence. By choosing inaction, by deferring to the comfortable narrative of inevitability, the only thing that actually becomes inevitable is what you lose out on. The learnings you would have accumulated. The institutional knowledge about how to make this stuff work in your specific context, in practice. Potentially even a voice in the discussions that will set standards and conventions.1 You’re not much better off than the doomers if you think your own creativity will be deprecated by some company’s future model update. That’s resignation dressed up as excitement. The Last Ten Miles I spend my days building production voice AI systems2 for businesses. And what I keep running into are problems that neither better models nor widely accepted solutions have solved. Figuring out the right kind of telemetry for workflows hinged upon non-deterministic models so you actually know what’s going on in your system and can explain when and why things go wrong. Building guardrails for inputs and outputs to ensure both the integrity and fidelity of the system. Accounting for fluctuating throughput and concurrency needs and factoring in how that affects decisions to use cloud APIs vs. dedicated compute / self-hosted deployments. Navigating the latency expectations and accuracy tradeoffs that are inherent to real-world spoken conversations. Dealing with compliance requirements in regulated industries like healthcare where an intelligible system with auditable, human-readable traces is non-negotiable. Designing human-in-the-loop workflows that don’t just treat your subject matter experts as fail-safes or rote approval-button pushers. The joys of small business IT systems. None of these problems are solved by the latest and greatest models nor the currently fashionable agent frameworks. The unavoidable work is figuring out how to actually integrate non-deterministic technology with the messy, specific, constrained reality of a given organization’s systems and needs. You can see evidence of this everywhere. From study after study of enterprises struggling with implementation, to conflicting reports of flattening adoption curves. And that’s all happening too despite a proliferation of models, frameworks, platforms, SDKs, and protocols for building “AI agents”3. 60+ different approaches, from every major tech company and a small army of startups, with no universal standards and competing interoperability schemes. If connecting AI models to enterprise systems was a solved problem, we would be regularly seeing unequivocally successful implementations and we wouldn’t have this fragmented landscape. We’d have a handful of dominant patterns that the industry was starting to congeal around and some vendors offering holistic, consistently reliable, production-ready solutions. We’d have growing consensus from tangible evidence, not just talk. The fact that we don’t have that consensus, after years of intense effort by the best-resourced labs and companies on the planet, suggests that well, we are still early, and that the problems are genuinely hard. And distinctly varied. The variety of solutions reflects how varied and stubborn the problems themselves are. To be clear, I’m not saying any of the above suggests progress has stalled necessarily. All of the above should be expected. General purpose technologies have this characteristic where the application layer is where most of the value and complexity lives. Electricity was transformative (over decades and decades ), but the hard part wasn’t generating power. It was rewiring factories, redesigning workflows, training workers, building appliances. The same goes for the internet. The “last mile” turned out to be most of the miles. That same dynamic seems to be playing out with AI. The models themselves are increasingly commodified (the capability gap between frontier models has narrowed, and open source models continue to close in). But the integration challenges? Dealing with messy data, legacy systems, compliance requirements, edge cases, modularity, observability, human workflows, and stochastic failure modes? If we’re lucky, a better model might truly solve a couple of those. But most are systems problems, and they’re inherently tied to the implementation context. Even if we fast forward 5 years to GPT-N, it still will not automatically know your team’s specific processes and workflows. It won’t know the quirks of the custom in-house API middleware you built to talk to some industry-specific integration-hostile external system. It won’t know your compliance team’s audit and documentation requirements. Capability is not the same as applicability. The Good News So the problems are hard. But I promise that’s a good thing. There are plenty of technologists and teams who know that the edge is in the context, in the unique constraints. They understand that solving problems now is not wasted work, and they are not waiting.4 When you solve hard integration problems today, you’re not just solving for today’s models. You get an opportunity to build abstraction layers. Evaluation harnesses. Data flywheels. Orchestration architectures and design patterns that enable you to reliably leverage presently available models, rough edges and all. It’s not always that simple. There are aspects that are difficult to abstract away. But that doesn’t change the fact that the more you solve today, the greater chance you have at designing a flexible and adaptable system. Not to mention a chance at cultivating valuable institutional technical knowledge that is hard to come by right now. You build the organizational muscle for iterating and adapting as the technology evolves. Waiting for better models to solve your problems is not a strategy. It’s a decision to accumulate dependency instead of internal capability. It’s betting your future on someone else’s roadmap. I think people would be surprised by what they can do with current AI models when they neither underestimate nor overestimate them. When they fully accept the limitations along with the capabilities. When they’re willing to stick with experimenting past the initial novelty, past the point where they have to accept that it is “just” a tool. A powerful tool, but still a tool. One that requires the same patient, unglamorous work of integration that every other worthwhile novel technology has required. The best ideas won’t come from passive observers that only act in response to others. Lead with curiosity instead of expectations and you develop both experience and flexibility. Reintroducing Gravity None of this is an argument against commodified or use case specific off-the-shelf solutions. It’s an argument against assuming those things will arrive before the work that makes them possible. Every team or business that wants to try out AI does not need to be (nor should be) building a whole new system from scratch. Everything I’ve said here is directed at those who are already building AI systems, are thinking about it, or want to. My hope is that what I’m saying evokes curiosity and a desire to experiment, not anxiety about the lack of answers or solutions. While there are many things about AI that are worrisome, concerning, or outright harmful…it is still just a technology, a tool. And like any other tool, it’s entirely up to people, us, how it will be developed, deployed, adopted, and integrated into our work and lives. Right now I’m engaging with it as a geek that has always loved janky and experimental tech and as someone that loves demystifying technology for anyone that has questions or anxieties about it. In other pieces I’ll be engaging with it from other perspectives. Whether you’re a lay person curious or skeptical about AI, a technologist using or implementing it, or a decision-maker considering AI initiatives, here are some ways to bring conversations back to earth if you catch a whiff of the “effortless AI” narrative. Ask: “What’s the hardest unsolved problem in this implementation / product / solution, and what’s the plan to address it?” Not “what are the risks” (most will have canned answers for that). But asking specifically about unsolved problems pushes people to admit where the real effort lives. If the answer is vague or hand-wavy, that’s a sign. Notice: When someone tells you a problem will be solved by the next model release, ask (them or yourself) what’s being done about it now . If the answer is “nothing” or “waiting,” that’s the myth at play. If the answer is “we’re building something that might work, or might become obsolete, but we’re learning either way,” that’s someone who tries to create opportunities with the technology they have, within their contexts. Experiment: The teams and companies getting value from AI right now are the ones that have accepted there isn’t an effortless path. It is always worthwhile to be thoughtful about how you spend your time and energy. But be wary of convenient narratives that dim your curiosity, discourage interrogation, or sideline your intuition – that would prefer you distant from your own problems and dependent on the solutions of others. The best way to become intimately acquainted with the problems you’re trying to solve is to, well, try to solve them. This is precisely why if you’re concerned with governance, ethics, trust, safety, and/or regulation in AI, you too should be wary of these narratives. Focus on the capabilities of the present – the potential harms of the present. Keyword: systems . Not agents. A distinction I think is important, if only to convey the primacy of integration and interoperability. A term whose definition still lacks consensus There’s a clear desire for more discourse around this. See Dex Horthy’s popular recent talk at the AI Engineer Code Summit from late Nov 2025: No Vibes Allowed: Solving Hard Problems in Complex Codebases The Comforting Myth of Effortless AI There’s a low, persistent hum in the air if you work anywhere near AI these days. I’m not talking about the loud stuff (e.g. “AGI in five years”, “50% of jobs disappearing tomorrow”). It’s much quieter. A subtle siren song of sorts. It goes something like: The hardest problems are already on their way to being solved. The friction you’re feeling now is temporary. If you just wait a little bit longer, the models will improve and all those integration headaches will go away. It sounds reasonable. Why spend time on solving problems that might disappear on their own? Why build complex systems when the ground is still shifting underneath you? This is the myth of “effortless AI”. The idea that the messy, unglamorous work of stitching new capabilities into real systems will soon be trivial if not outright obsolete. The myth says: the real innovation is happening at the model layer, the infrastructure layer – that it’s happening fast, and it’s being done elsewhere. Your job isn’t to solve hard problems, it’s to wait for the hard problems to get solved for you, then plug in the solutions when they’re ready. What makes this tricky to talk about is that different strains of AI discourse overlap and twist around each other. You’ll see leaders from big AI labs warn about imminent societal collapse, politicians parrot similar talking points, books with press tours heralding dystopia...all against the backdrop of investment and infrastructure buildouts continuing at dizzying levels. These narratives reinforce each other and mix together into a general atmosphere of not just perpetual substantial advancement of AI but anticipated swift, widespread adoption and integration of it. When I say “effortless AI”, I’m talking about that second part. The adoption and integration. And specifically from the perspective of those who will make up the lion’s share of it: enterprises. Right now you may be thinking, “Who actually says implementing AI is effortless? I just saw Andrej Karpathy and Ilya Sutskever talking about how hard this stuff is and how many unsolved problems there are.” And you’re right. Many of us working in the field know better. But it’s seldom stated so bluntly. That’s part of what makes it tricky. It’s hard to show absence. It’s hard to show the voided interstitial space where you’d expect more substance. It’s in the “but” that always follows any acknowledgment of difficulty. In the conversational scurry to safety: “but there’s new updates every week”, “it’s all changing so fast”, “we need to be ready”, “this is the worst it’ll ever be”. Don’t get me wrong, I do this too. That’s part of why I wanted to explore this. We launder the narrative of effortless AI by what we’re not saying. And that’s what can make it hard to nail down. Learned Innovationlessness “Effortless AI” is a comforting story. It takes the pressure off. It tells you that it’s fine to not have anything figured out yet, it’s just temporary. It allows us to conflate inaction with patience, disengagement with prudence. But narratives shape behavior. And one behavior I keep seeing, in client conversations, in industry discourse, in the way some teams approach AI projects, is a kind of... “learned innovationlessness”. It’s this strange paralysis where some people have convinced themselves that unless you’re working at the model layer then you’re incapable of “real” innovation. Everything else is derivative. Doomed to be absorbed by the next model release or the next framework or whatever OpenAI, Google, or Anthropic announces next quarter. To be clear, the belief isn’t just “AI will get better”. That’s a given. The belief is “AI will get better without me , and therefore I don’t need to act.” If you squint then it might look like optimism. But it’s more of an optimistic type of fatalism. It removes personal agency. It devalues context-specific engineering and creativity. It frames innovation as unnecessary and offloads responsibility to labs and vendors. It convinces people that their own domain knowledge, their own hard-won understanding of their business, their systems, their constraints, and their customers is really of no consequence. By choosing inaction, by deferring to the comfortable narrative of inevitability, the only thing that actually becomes inevitable is what you lose out on. The learnings you would have accumulated. The institutional knowledge about how to make this stuff work in your specific context, in practice. Potentially even a voice in the discussions that will set standards and conventions.1 You’re not much better off than the doomers if you think your own creativity will be deprecated by some company’s future model update. That’s resignation dressed up as excitement. The Last Ten Miles I spend my days building production voice AI systems2 for businesses. And what I keep running into are problems that neither better models nor widely accepted solutions have solved. Figuring out the right kind of telemetry for workflows hinged upon non-deterministic models so you actually know what’s going on in your system and can explain when and why things go wrong. Building guardrails for inputs and outputs to ensure both the integrity and fidelity of the system. Accounting for fluctuating throughput and concurrency needs and factoring in how that affects decisions to use cloud APIs vs. dedicated compute / self-hosted deployments. Navigating the latency expectations and accuracy tradeoffs that are inherent to real-world spoken conversations. Dealing with compliance requirements in regulated industries like healthcare where an intelligible system with auditable, human-readable traces is non-negotiable. Designing human-in-the-loop workflows that don’t just treat your subject matter experts as fail-safes or rote approval-button pushers. The joys of small business IT systems. None of these problems are solved by the latest and greatest models nor the currently fashionable agent frameworks. The unavoidable work is figuring out how to actually integrate non-deterministic technology with the messy, specific, constrained reality of a given organization’s systems and needs. You can see evidence of this everywhere. From study after study of enterprises struggling with implementation, to conflicting reports of flattening adoption curves. And that’s all happening too despite a proliferation of models, frameworks, platforms, SDKs, and protocols for building “AI agents”3. 60+ different approaches, from every major tech company and a small army of startups, with no universal standards and competing interoperability schemes. If connecting AI models to enterprise systems was a solved problem, we would be regularly seeing unequivocally successful implementations and we wouldn’t have this fragmented landscape. We’d have a handful of dominant patterns that the industry was starting to congeal around and some vendors offering holistic, consistently reliable, production-ready solutions. We’d have growing consensus from tangible evidence, not just talk. The fact that we don’t have that consensus, after years of intense effort by the best-resourced labs and companies on the planet, suggests that well, we are still early, and that the problems are genuinely hard. And distinctly varied. The variety of solutions reflects how varied and stubborn the problems themselves are. To be clear, I’m not saying any of the above suggests progress has stalled necessarily. All of the above should be expected. General purpose technologies have this characteristic where the application layer is where most of the value and complexity lives. Electricity was transformative (over decades and decades ), but the hard part wasn’t generating power. It was rewiring factories, redesigning workflows, training workers, building appliances. The same goes for the internet. The “last mile” turned out to be most of the miles. That same dynamic seems to be playing out with AI. The models themselves are increasingly commodified (the capability gap between frontier models has narrowed, and open source models continue to close in). But the integration challenges? Dealing with messy data, legacy systems, compliance requirements, edge cases, modularity, observability, human workflows, and stochastic failure modes? If we’re lucky, a better model might truly solve a couple of those. But most are systems problems, and they’re inherently tied to the implementation context. Even if we fast forward 5 years to GPT-N, it still will not automatically know your team’s specific processes and workflows. It won’t know the quirks of the custom in-house API middleware you built to talk to some industry-specific integration-hostile external system. It won’t know your compliance team’s audit and documentation requirements. Capability is not the same as applicability. The Good News So the problems are hard. But I promise that’s a good thing. There are plenty of technologists and teams who know that the edge is in the context, in the unique constraints. They understand that solving problems now is not wasted work, and they are not waiting.4 When you solve hard integration problems today, you’re not just solving for today’s models. You get an opportunity to build abstraction layers. Evaluation harnesses. Data flywheels. Orchestration architectures and design patterns that enable you to reliably leverage presently available models, rough edges and all. It’s not always that simple. There are aspects that are difficult to abstract away. But that doesn’t change the fact that the more you solve today, the greater chance you have at designing a flexible and adaptable system. Not to mention a chance at cultivating valuable institutional technical knowledge that is hard to come by right now. You build the organizational muscle for iterating and adapting as the technology evolves. Waiting for better models to solve your problems is not a strategy. It’s a decision to accumulate dependency instead of internal capability. It’s betting your future on someone else’s roadmap. I think people would be surprised by what they can do with current AI models when they neither underestimate nor overestimate them. When they fully accept the limitations along with the capabilities. When they’re willing to stick with experimenting past the initial novelty, past the point where they have to accept that it is “just” a tool. A powerful tool, but still a tool. One that requires the same patient, unglamorous work of integration that every other worthwhile novel technology has required. The best ideas won’t come from passive observers that only act in response to others. Lead with curiosity instead of expectations and you develop both experience and flexibility. Reintroducing Gravity None of this is an argument against commodified or use case specific off-the-shelf solutions. It’s an argument against assuming those things will arrive before the work that makes them possible. Every team or business that wants to try out AI does not need to be (nor should be) building a whole new system from scratch. Everything I’ve said here is directed at those who are already building AI systems, are thinking about it, or want to. My hope is that what I’m saying evokes curiosity and a desire to experiment, not anxiety about the lack of answers or solutions. While there are many things about AI that are worrisome, concerning, or outright harmful…it is still just a technology, a tool. And like any other tool, it’s entirely up to people, us, how it will be developed, deployed, adopted, and integrated into our work and lives. Right now I’m engaging with it as a geek that has always loved janky and experimental tech and as someone that loves demystifying technology for anyone that has questions or anxieties about it. In other pieces I’ll be engaging with it from other perspectives. Whether you’re a lay person curious or skeptical about AI, a technologist using or implementing it, or a decision-maker considering AI initiatives, here are some ways to bring conversations back to earth if you catch a whiff of the “effortless AI” narrative. Ask: “What’s the hardest unsolved problem in this implementation / product / solution, and what’s the plan to address it?” Not “what are the risks” (most will have canned answers for that). But asking specifically about unsolved problems pushes people to admit where the real effort lives. If the answer is vague or hand-wavy, that’s a sign. Notice: When someone tells you a problem will be solved by the next model release, ask (them or yourself) what’s being done about it now . If the answer is “nothing” or “waiting,” that’s the myth at play. If the answer is “we’re building something that might work, or might become obsolete, but we’re learning either way,” that’s someone who tries to create opportunities with the technology they have, within their contexts. Experiment: The teams and companies getting value from AI right now are the ones that have accepted there isn’t an effortless path. It is always worthwhile to be thoughtful about how you spend your time and energy. But be wary of convenient narratives that dim your curiosity, discourage interrogation, or sideline your intuition – that would prefer you distant from your own problems and dependent on the solutions of others. The best way to become intimately acquainted with the problems you’re trying to solve is to, well, try to solve them. This is precisely why if you’re concerned with governance, ethics, trust, safety, and/or regulation in AI, you too should be wary of these narratives. Focus on the capabilities of the present – the potential harms of the present. Keyword: systems . Not agents. A distinction I think is important, if only to convey the primacy of integration and interoperability. A term whose definition still lacks consensus There’s a clear desire for more discourse around this. See Dex Horthy’s popular recent talk at the AI Engineer Code Summit from late Nov 2025: No Vibes Allowed: Solving Hard Problems in Complex Codebases
