My Favorite Games of 2025 Getting older while remaining obsessed with an entertainment medium brings to mind Pauline Kael’s Trash, Art and the Movies. Kael’s purview of course was film, and as the title implies the main takeaway I think most people have from the essay is an argument in favor of the pleasures of unpretentiously honest, messy, human, cinematic “trash” (often low-budget genre and exploitation films) over self-consciously refined, didactic, high-brow “art” pictures. All well and good, but what sticks with me is her observation about having hung on as a moviegoer for decades, coming back day after day, year after year, and getting bored of, or at least overly acclimated to, the standard agreed-upon structures and rhythms and accepted conventions of the medium: in film’s case, the tidy three acts, rising tension, a climactic resolution where justice wins out and the bad guys get what they deserve, high-minded but simplistic moralistic “messages”; she observes that at one point all of this was new to all of us, but as you keep coming back and you see it again and again, the experience becomes predictable, inauthentic, routine. And the thing is, there’s always a self-replenishing audience for whom this is all new, year after year: younger viewers who haven’t seen the carefully-crafted high-budget adventure picture or the self-serious procedural crime thriller or the charming madcap romance a dozen or a hundred times already. And so the industry keeps reusing these molds, over and over, for a new generation of wide-eyed viewers. But to the ones who have been around a little longer and seen it all before? The biggest, most accessible part of the medium just isn’t for them anymore. Maybe the polished, conventional big-budget stuff that’s executed with a subversive or personal sensibility occasionally still clicks, but by and large the lover of the medium who’s “seen it all before” is left to seek out increasingly obscure and esoteric work to keep them engaged and expand their horizons. By the end of the essay this has led Kael to an increasing interest in documentary features— exploring the real world and people’s real stories through film instead of indulging in more and more warmed-over fictional romps; for someone who loves games, or at least this person who loves games, it’s led to seeking out smaller, grittier, less-produced, more personal titles, whether that’s “personal” in the sense of expressing people’s individual stories, or just in exposing their strange and particular obsessions, turning fixations into pixels. It’s the stuff that somebody made just because they too love games and it’s the only way they know to get what’s in their head out into the world; the stuff that isn’t made to chase trends or maximize return on investment or do things the “right way” according to “best practices,” but to bring a phosphor-burned dream from their half-remembered childhood screaming into the present. Conjuring ghosts. Mad visions made real. Give the selection below a look; regardless of your own personal obsessions, I hope you’ll find something to enjoy.
