3D Vision: Ensenso B now also available as a mono version! This compact 3D camera series combines a very short working distance, a large field of view and a high depth of field - perfect for bin picking applications. With its ability to capture multiple objects over a large area, it can help robots empty containers more efficiently. Now available from IDS Imaging Development Systems. In the color version of the Ensenso B, the stereo system is equipped with two RGB image sensors. This saves additional sensors and reduces installation space and hardware costs. Now, you can also choose your model to be equipped with two 5 MP mono sensors, achieving impressively high spatial precision. With enhanced sharpness and accuracy, you can tackle applications where absolute precision is essential. The great strength of the Ensenso B lies in the very precise detection of objects at close range. It offers a wide field of view and an impressively high depth of field. This means that the area in which an object is in focus is unusually large. At a distance of 30 centimetres between the camera and the object, the Z-accuracy is approx. 0.1 millimetres. The maximum working distance is 2 meters. This 3D camera series complies with protection class IP65/67 and is ideal for use in industrial environments. Palladyne IQ - Unlocking new frontiers for robotic performance. Palladyne IQ is a closed-loop autonomy software that uses artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) technologies to provide human-like reasoning capabilities for industrial robots and collaborative robots (cobots). By enabling robots to perceive variations or changes in the real-world environment and adapt to them dynamically, Palladyne IQ helps make robots smarter today and ready to handle jobs that have historically been too complex to automate. Robotmaster 2024 Program multi-robot cells and automatically solve robotic errors with ease. Hypertherm Associates announces a new version to its robotic programming software. Robotmaster 2024 addresses key market trends including the support for programming multiple robots in a single work cell and the demand for automatic trajectory optimization and robotic error correction. Model TR1 Tru-Trac The Model TR1 Tru-Trac® linear measurement solution is a versatile option for tracking velocity, position, or distance over a wide variety of surfaces. An integrated encoder, measuring wheel, and spring-loaded torsion arm in one, compact unit, the Model TR1 is easy to install. The spring-loaded torsion arm offers adjustable torsion load, allowing the Model TR1 to be mounted in almost any orientation - even upside-down. The threaded shaft on the pivot axis is field reversible, providing mounting access from either side. With operating speeds up to 3000 feet per minute, a wide variety of configuration options - including multiple wheel material options - and a housing made from a durable, conductive composite material that minimizes static buildup, the Model TR1 Tru-Trac® is the ideal solution for countless applications. MVTec MERLIC 5.8 With MERLIC 5.8, MVTec expands its easy-to-use machine vision software. The latest version improves process reliability beyond pure image processing, offering enhanced error handling and optimized configuration. This enables faster setup and stable deployment across diverse production environments. Explore MERLIC 5.8 now
