Posted on December 18, 2025 Posted by John Scalzi 59 Comments If you should ever want to wind up an old-school Robert Heinlein fan — which, by the way, you shouldn’t do, they’re all clocking seventy-plus years now, and you should respect your elders — tell them you enjoy the movie version of Starship Troopers more than the Heinlein novel on which it was (somewhat loosely) based. Then move fast, because if you don’t, you’re gonna get whacked upside the head with a cane. Those OG Heinlein fans may be older now, but they’re spry , and if there is one heresy remaining for them, a preference for the film over the novel would be it. And in many respects they are not wrong. The movie version of Starship Troopers wasn’t originally based (directly) on the novel; screenwriter Ed Neumeier wrote up a sci-fi action movie treatment called Bug Hunt at Outpost 7 that did not reference the novel at all. It was only later in the development process that Neumeier and producer Jon Davidson learned the rights to the novel were available and optioned them, and started grafting elements of Heinlein’s tale onto the spine of Outpost 7 . Add in director Paul Verhoeven, who legend has it couldn’t even get through the novel but knew he wanted to satirize fascism in the film, and you end up a final cinematic product that is to Heinlein’s novel like grape soda is to an actual grape. As it turns out, however, a lot of people like the taste of grape soda. I happen to be one of them. Nor do I think it’s a particular heresy to enjoy the movie, even if one prefers the novel. Very few movies adapted from novels are scrupulously faithful to their source material, and the few that are, are usually weirdly paced and unwieldly (looking at you, Watchmen , and even that changed the ending). The things that make for a great novel are not often the things that make for a great cinematic experience, and vice-versa, as some of the greatest films in history are made from mediocre books (looking at you, The Godfather ). Whenever I mention to people that my novel Old Man’s War is under option, there’s someone who inevitably tells me, I hope they keep it true to the novel . I can assure you they probably will not. As just one example, at one point Chris Hemsworth was attached to star in the movie. Do you think they would pay Hemsworth $20 million (or whatever) to be in the movie, and then paint him green, to match the description of his character in the novel? I do not. Nor do I think a star on the level of Hemsworth would have wanted to be that color. It’s not easy being green, by which I mean that he (and many many other characters) would have to spend hours in makeup every morning. They’d save time and money letting him be his original hue. I was a movie critic for years and now for years I’ve been having works optioned for film and television. So I am here to tell you, with some authority: Movies always deviate from the novels. The question is less, why aren’t they being faithful to the source material. The question: Is what they’re doing to the source material interesting? That’s the question I ask when I watch a movie based on a novel. What Paul Verhoeven is doing in Starship Troopers is very interesting. No one was asking for a pop art scifi movie that was ostensibly about shooting big damn alien bugs but was really a mediation about the quiet mainstreaming of fascistic thought and imagery into everyday life, and how all that glossy, idealized ubermensch aesthetic and thinking falls apart once it meets the chaos of war. But surprise! Here it is! Would you like to know more? The story at least initially follows the novel’s outline: Johnny Rico (the impossibly square-jawed Casper Van Dien) is a callow, rich pretty boy who is not too smart, but is also vaguely dissatisfied with the cushy life being laid out for him. So when his pals Carmen (Denise Richards) and Carl (Neil Patrick Harris) sign up for Federal Service to fight against a bug-like alien race called the Arachnids, he sort of goes along, too, annoying his parents in the process. Boot camp is hard for Johnny, and he almost calls it quits, but then his home town of Buenos Aires gets smooshed by an Arachnid-guided meteorite, and then, well, it is on . Nearly everything up to this point in the film, save for a brief intro battle sequence, has the flat and brightly-lit affect of 90s teen television: it all looks like Starship Troopers 90210 , up to and including absolutely beautiful “teenagers” who are clearly well into their 20s, if not older (of the main trio Van Dien was 27 when filming started, Richards was 24 and Harris was the baby at 22). And this is the point: Verhoeven wants to seduce you with hot kids in a nice clean world that seems great as long as you ignore the public executions, the denial of voting status for most people, the military dictatorship, and, you know, the war out there in space. But then you get to that war out in space, and you know what happens to all those really hot kids? Nothing good! And that’s where Verhoeven springs his trap. All the physical beauty in the world won’t save you in battle! All those really cool, vaguely-nazi-looking uniforms don’t look nearly as good shredded and covered in blood! And all the training and/or indoctrination you might get means nothing when the military command tells you little and sends you to die by the shipload. Verhoeven, who has never been shy about gouts of blood, severed limbs and gore, paints his masterpiece here in the viscera of the young, who ten seconds before looked like they should be in a Gap ad. The director holds up the fascistic perfection of a Leni Riefenstahl film, specifically to gleefully dash, slash, and splash it into the dirt. Ironically (or perhaps not so ironically, because this is the US and we don’t do irony especially well), lots of folks didn’t clue into what Verhoeven was up to, accusing the famously anti-fascist director of glorifying Nazism, an accusation which Verhoeven was flabbergasted by. It would take years, long after the movie was out of the theaters and into home video, for most people to fully get what he was up to. Some people still don’t like it; many old school Heinlein fans continue to be enraged that Verhoeven’s lardering his story with fascistic imagery painted their favorite writer with the authoritarian brush. I don’t think Heinlein ever landed on the “fascist” square at any point in his life. It’s certainly true, however, that Heinlein was moving target, politics-wise; how else can you describe someone who worked on the campaigns of both Upton Sinclair, a socialist and Democrat (who ran for governor of California in the 1930s) and the uberconservative Barry Goldwater, who ran for president in 1964? Heinlein’s politics started left and sauntered right and added in a dollop of free-love weirdness (to, uhhhhh, say the least ) in there to confuse everybody. The dynamic range of his politics over his life (and how that leaked into his fiction) means that if one wants to, one can cobble together an image of him through his work that these days gives off an authoritarian odor. Starship Troopers , the novel, is the prime source for that. The blatantly fascist imagery of the movie, satire or not, doesn’t help his fans make an argument against that. I’ve gone into the weeds with the politics of Starship Troopers , so let me note that aside from the design of the movie, it’s also a sharply-paced action film, where the bug-killin’s both varied and plentiful: if you’re looking to see a bunch of alien bugs get ripped up by humans as much as the humans get ripped up by the aliens, this is your film. The CGI in film remains immaculate; thirty years on, it’s wild how good and how threatening the arachnids look. This film doesn’t have just one or two of them, sneaking about ala the Alien films; no, it piles them on in the hundreds, and they very much look like they are going to fuck everyone up. As Carl points out, “It’s a numbers game. They have more.” Boy, do they ever. There are very few scenes in the film where it ever feels like the humans have the upper hand, and even when they do, they’re as likely to lose a few fingers than not. Whatever else this movie is, it’s a good action-adventure film, if not, exactly, a feel-good action-adventure film. Like so many other Paul Verhoeven films, Starship Trooper s is a chaotic mess of tones; all those action scenes and pointed imagery and pretty, pretty people, tossed into a stylistic blender and sent a-whirlin’ at the highest speed setting. Almost thirty years ago now I wrote a review of this film that started with “Paul Verhoeven is a director who can give you everything you want in a movie, as long as you want too much of it.” You know what? I stand behind that sentence. Verhoeven thinks subtlety is for cowards, and he’s having none of it here, and you’re not getting of it, either. You either accept this is going to be a firehose of a movie, or you get out of the way. To get back to those old school Heinlein fans, many of whom I like very much as humans, I can only offer the following advice to them, in terms of how to think about their beloved book, and this heretical film Hey! There’s a novel called Starship Troopers! It’s pretty good! Coincidentally and unrelated, there’s a movie called Starship Troopers! It’s also pretty good! Not the same, but pretty good. You can’t copyright titles, you know. It was inevitable there would be a movie and novel with the same name, otherwise having little to do with each other. These things happen. And that’s okay. Also, wait until I tell you about the remarkable coincidence that happened with I, Robot. — JS I know what you mean; I fell in love with A Boy and His Dog despite the changes and the fact that Harlan was my favorite author at the time. It WORKS In terms of one’s work being optioned into another medium, I learned today that Naomi Novik’s Temeraire novels are going to come out as a table-top RPG sometime in the near future (crowdfund pre-signups are open now). John – have any of your works come out with a table-top RPG? If not, are you open to discussing why – maybe in a future post? Starship Troopers is the only good sequel to Robocop and it’s best to pretend the movie Starship Troopers doesn’t have sequels either. As an isolated duology for a fun double feature, Robocop and Starship Troopers have a lot to say, much of it thematic between the two, and probably Verhoeven was the only director in each respective year to try to say it. Poe’s Law suggests it shouldn’t be a surprise that sequels to both confused allegory and satire for seriousness and never had anything to say in the same pointed way. The podcast It Was a Sh*t Show did a great deep dive into the making of Starship Troopers, including Paul Verhoeven’s fascism-hating origin story. Not sure if links will work in Whatever but the title is Sh*t Show Podcast: Starship Troopers (1997) The question is less, why aren’t they being faithful to the source material. The question: Is what they’re doing to the source material interesting? Well… I agree it’s rarely possible to be literally faithful to the source. However, I think it is possible to be faithful to the spirit of the source – the themes and general story. My favorite example there is David Lynch’s Dune and Peter Hyams’ 2010 , which came out pretty close to each other. Neither one is literally close to the source material (being charitable). 2010 excised the entire subplot about the Chinese spaceship, and inserted a Cold War to-the-brink subplot to crank up tensions between the US and Soviet crews. I do miss the Tsien , and feel the Cold War plot was overly strident. But the thing is? One of my favorite bits about the Clarke novel is how it projects a pretty harmonious post-Cold War spirit, with the crews being very collegial and friendly. And the movie ends up there, though with far less subtlety. So even though it doesn’t follow the book very closely, I enjoyed the movie. Lynch, OTOH… well, on a personal level, the impression I had of source-Dune’s imperial society was a very mannered, must-be-calm-and-not-show-fear life. So Lynch’s casual grotesqueries were pretty off-putting. But in more general themes, the source novel had a subtle but strong anti-messiah message, and the movie bought into the surface Hero narrative (see Alia’s “He IS the Kwisatz Haderach” at the end). There was also the secondary theme of distrusting machines and boosting native human potential – the mentats, for example. The deliberate stacking of the deck with the shield, to promote hand-to-hand combat. And particularly the comparison between the Fremen and the Saudarkar as products of hostile planetary environments, and the note that Duke Leto had trained a small cadre of fighters within a hair of the feared imperial troops. All of that was not just lost, but repudiated, with the “weirding device”; a magic bit of technology that was the secret strength of the Atreides, replacing the thorough and skilled training in the source novel. So two movies that make big divergences from their source novels; but one that ends up saying the same thing differently, the other completely changing the message. Back to the topic… yeah, I think I agree the Starship Troopers movie does interesting things with its source material, and I can even agree with its intent. But I think fans of the original novel can be justifiably angry with the way its themes were treated. I came here to put up the same link Pete. :) “and added in a dollop of free-love weirdness ” I’ve always attributed that heel turn to his stroke, since from what I remember it really became pronounced after he had it. I liked the movie, though I went into it with very low expectations as the posters made it clear it was not a faithful adaptation (no power armor, for one thing.) I have a love/hate relationship with Heinlein the author; being of a certain age, my introduction to scifi is heavily weighted in favor of the Grand Masters. Being a woman of a certain age has left only Bradbury relatively unscathed. (Yes, I’m aware of the misogyny arguments. Yes, I’d also read an Scalzi essay on the various failings of the Grand Masters.) I do love this movie though, for the absolutely bonkers ( at the time) take on American politics, and the comeuppance of pretty, pretty people. I also think Troopers has aged better than Verhoven’s Robocop, it’s an aged cheddar vs a Kraft single. I can’t say that Troopers is a comfort watch for me right now, ask me again in 2028. @John, please spill any tea you have on I, Robot. I own a copy of the book version of the illustrated screenplay written by Ellison– that is indeed a movie I would like to see! As for the Chris Hemsworth scenario…it’s worth remembering that we don’t need the body paint routine these days. Not unless he wants to try it. He almost certainly remembers how Mark Ruffalo handled Hulk mode with a bit of training from Andy Serkis… Hey! I’m not clocking seventy-plus years! I’m only clocking fifty-plus! I want to enjoy the movie qua movie. I can enjoy little pieces of it in isolation. And if it were an entirely different movie without the association with Heinlein i definitely would enjoy it! But it’s really hard for me to keep the two media containerized in my mind, and every time someone points at the movie as “evidence” that Heinlein was a fascist it gets a little harder. There are other cases where a movie has been just as different from the source material as this is where i’ve been able to enjoy both. But in this case Heinlein was such a formative part of my SF experience growing up, and the political nature of the changes are so extreme, that i just have a tough time with it. But kudos to you for being able to maintain that distinction yourself and enjoy them both! I’m almost disappointed you didn’t say “Would you like to know more?” The little snippet pieces really stay with you afterwards (I’m thinking of the women jumping up and down clapping as some kids kill bugs, and some of the scenes we see on Fox News as they praise the supreme leader. Way too scarily like real life now). It showed what you could do with CGI, and it’s a capstone of the 1990s action movies. Ya, I try to be objective about different mediums. I’ve always thought the movie Serenity failed because the makers got mixed up with some TV show called Firefly which movie-goers wouldn’t give a care about. (No, I won’t give examples, and yes I love Browncoats) As for the written Heinlein, my favourite decades are not necessarily someone else’s favourite decades—It’s like how I feel sorry for anyone who mixes up the decadent third-world Roman Empire for the virtuous first world Roman republic. Same city, different space-time. If Verhoeven had made his film, with different character names and titled whatever production made of Bug Hunt at Outpost 7, how would we have reacted? Perhaps nodded politely at the anti-fascist framing story, while wondering aloud whether it was undermined by fascists being the sympathetic viewpoint characters for most of the plot. Would it have got as much attention without Heinlein’s name attached? I suspect not. To whatever extent it stole Heinlein’s reputation as a marketing technique it’s fair enough to be offended and I think it stole quite a bit. Given the reception of the more canonical remake of The Running Man, it makes me sad that a more canonical adaptation of Starship Troopers will probably never happen now. But if you don’t paint the actors green, then the Rrey joke “skip these ones, they aren’t ripe” joke doesn’t land. If James Cameron can get a blockbuster movie that’s mostly blue CGI cats, you can get your green-skinned old farts. @Paul: psst: end of paragraph 7… “But surprise! Here it is! Do you want to know more?” @Scalzi – I am SO glad you ended with that I, Robot ending. I’ve been arguing since it came out that as an unrelated movie it’s just fine, and me a huge fan of the books first! I still have many of them! Also Beastmaster, which was so unrelated to the book Norton had her credit taken off. And that’s where Verhoeven springs his trap. All the physical beauty in the world won’t save you in battle! Well, yeah, that’ll happen when you have your guys surround a bug in a circle, and all shoot at once. I saw Starship Troopers in the theater, after reading a bunch of Heinlein in high school. I’ve made peace with judging things on their own, rather than pining because my mental images from written media are translated differently into other media. Unfortunately for Starship Troopers, the 20-ft-tall vag-brain supervillain quivering under torture is an indelible image in my mind, and was off-putting to the point of never wanting to re-watch the movie. There are a lot of movies out there, and life is too short! As others have said, they can green skin in post – it’s been done before! Heated Rivalry is a series that’s faithful to the spirit of the (MM romance) books, but not the exact content. They did really well finding a director and actors who could do that. Way back in the future year of 2000, I got my MA based on a dissertation explaining why Robocop, Total Recall and Starship Troopers were Verhoevan’s three parts of a future history. Imagine my surprise/pleasure when what I thought was a dope, original idea had also been posited by JS! Also, I find it interesting that people who lionise the authoritarian elements of ST the novel always seem to forget/ignore that Heinlein moves into space communism in The Moon is a Harsh Mistress via the space hippy mysticism of Stranger in a Strange Land. It’s almost like a certain personality needs to cherry pick their justifications… I watched when this first came out and aside from my disappointment with one story aspect, I thought it was a pretty good movie, agree with your take here 100 percent. The disappointment was in changing Johnny Rico’s nationality. Though it was treated as inconsequential in the novel, I was thrilled when Johnny mentioned that he was Filipino (being Filipino myself) in the novel. I’m with you on Starship Troopers. I love the movie, but at the same time acknowledge that it’s not a very good Heinlein adaptation. The movie dispenses with some of the key parts of the book. First is the whole notion of the History and Moral Philosophy class, which the film only barely mentions in passing. It would have been hard to film; way too talky. Another is the Mobile Infantry suits. Heinlein doesn’t describe them in quite the amount of loving detail that the titular suit in Have Space Suit — Will Travel gets, but they still get quite a bit of page time. Again, they would have been hard to film; who wants to make a movie where the stars spend half their time encased in full body armor? Avatar later showed us how it COULD have been done, but Starship Troopers didn’t have the effects budget for that even if Verhoeven had thought of it. Heinlein would have hated those suits anyway because they’re utter nonsense in engineering terms; why would anyone make the thing vulnerable with those huge picture windows? Finally, the military balance is very different from the book. In the book, the MI are highly trained and well equipped troops that are not cannon fodder; any losses are lamented. In contrast, the Bugs are poorly equipped for combat, but their numbers are HUGE and they breed quickly. SPI did a wargame based on Starship Troopers that is true to that aspect; the Bugs always lose in any conventional military sense, but the game objectives reflect the nature of a war of high tech vs overwhelming numbers. It’s hard to pin down the actual ideology of Heinlein, as it is not fully consistent between his books. I think the purest distillation of what he believed is Time Enough For Love, and in particular the quotes from the notebooks of Lazarus Long that appear as two interludes in the middle of the book. They were also published as a standalone book with fancy calligraphy. The free love stuff? We found out posthumously that he was there from the start, when his unpublished first novel For Us, The Living finally saw the light of day. But that sort of thing was unpublishable in the early days of his career, which was one of the reasons that the book was unpublished. (The other was that it was not all that well written, which isn’t surprising for a bit of early writing.) He reused bits and pieces of it in his published works. Even if he HAD attempted an accurate translation of the book to film, I doubt it would have attracted much of an audience. The book reads like the ideas in it are meant to be taken seriously (though as I said, that’s not entirely clear), and I don’t think there was much of an audience for those ideas in the cynical 1990s or now. (Vietnam was a loss of innocence for the US; after that experience it became much more difficult to stomach that kind of uncritical patriotism, even if the current president is trying to revive it.) Hardcore Heinlein fans might have loved it, but nobody else would have shown up. So Verhoeven instead made it a cautionary tale about fascism and propaganda; the ads promoting military service were very well done. Finally, let us recognize the genius of the infamous shower scene. Sure, it doesn’t really belong in Starship Troopers; it feels like it was borrowed from The Forever War. But in a few short moments of film, it shows the complete gender integration of the film’s version of the MI, while at the same time delivering a lot of gratuitous eye candy for everyone. P.S. — I don’t think Time Enough For Love could be turned into a movie; there is just too much material, and an accurate film would get an NC-17 rating which is box office poison. But it could be a great limited series for HBO or Netflix, neither of which shies away from nudity, and the episodic nature of the book makes it a natural for a series. Or perhaps Prime Video; it surely would have been more interesting and less of a waste of a billion dollars than their horrible Lord of the Rings series. I was a junior in high school when Starship Troopers came out in theaters. At then 17, with then zero knowledge of the source material, this was a was a wild experience for my young mind. It stays with you through the years. Neill Blomkamp, known for District 9, is attempting a reboot of Starship Troopers that will be more faithful to the book. I’m not sure whether to be excited or afraid. Story: https://variety.com/2025/film/news/starship-troopers-remake-set-neill-blomkamp-1236338005/ Great review and discussion. I’m in the “like the book but also like the movie for entirely different reasons” cadre. I ‘get’ that it was a satire on military ‘recruitment’, but it bugs me (sic) that so many (young, non-sf-reading) people might think it actually represents Heinlein’s work. And that, post watching this, actually picking up the book might turn them off to Heinlein’s work. Then again, I recognize that much of Heinlein’s work is becoming increasingly dated. Some painfully so. Couldn’t finish ‘Stranger’ last time I tried to re-read it. Still enjoy Double Star, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, (and Troopers,of course.) As for the movie, meh. I wish they’d not used the Heinlein names at all. Casper VanD as ‘Juan Rico’ ? Just plain dumb. @Shirley Dulcey “Neill Blomkamp… is attempting a reboot of Starship Troopers that will be more faithful to the book.” Would rather a mini-series than a big-budget f/x fiasco. But I’d rather just re-read it, as a treatise on duty and citizenship, and watch other things. You have to remember that a movie and a book are two entirely different things. They will treat the same scene/event quite differently. They’re trying to influence two different parts of your brain. One paints word pictures, the other paints visual pictures. Two different media, two different products. Comparing a book to a film is like comparing a tangerine to a pizza. They’re both food, but… Just my (not-so) humble opinion. A fascinating glimpse of RAH’s “political views” (however defined) can be obtained by noting that Starship Troopers was written while Stranger in a Strange Land was being written, so he takes a break from sharing water to sharing bug spray… While this movie might have been meant as a satire on corny ”recruitment” films, have those really been a big thing since the WWII era? (Top Gun notwithstanding.) I mean, we’ve had Platoon, Full Metal Jacket etc. etc. around for a long time now. Troopers was so long after ‘Nam that it’s beside any point it may have intended. For my money, UNcomfortable on too many levels. Since this inevitably comes up, a small clarification: Heinlein explicitly stated that the military was just one way a citizen could serve their country to earn citizenship and the right to vote. And if you didn’t want to vote, like the near-majority of eligible voters in many countries, you didn’t have to serve. I used to have the text and page number reference close at hand to support that point, but some years ago I gave up. Read the book if you don’t believe me. In effect, he was describing a “selective service” system much like the national service systems in some Scandinavian and Nordic countries. However, being a realist about fiction, he realized that writing a slam-bam patriotic military conflict was a better way to earn a million bucks than a quiet story about someone planting trees or delivering social services. (It was also a tip of the hat to his many friends and colleagues who served in the military.) Here endeth my TED Talk. “Paul Verhoeven is a director who can give you everything you want in a movie, as long as you want too much of it.” OMG yes. Showgirls did what I thought would be impossible, made me tired of seeing… Well, you know. By the time the movie came out I’d read the novel a couple of times and been in the Army. And what I noticed was the casting. IIRC, there were no non-white people anywhere. Which was very different from my experience and which explicitly contradicted the book. So my immediate conclusion, based on the evidence onscreen, was the Verhoeven was racist even by 1990’s American standards. Which makes it hard to enjoy the movie. Apparently he’s just European and didn’t have much experience with non-European people. But still, every time I watch it the whitewashing just grates. This is one of those movies the Internet loves to hate. I’ll admit, I didn’t hate it, even though I’m one of those old-school Heinlein fans (and I recognize that he doesn’t hold up as well in the modern era). I always read it as more of a send-up of the military-industrial complex, but maybe the fascism is just builtin there. The movie is definitely over-the-top, but I suspect that was the point. I’m doing my part! My favorite “Starship Troopers” related work is John Steakley’s “Armor.” It’s got more bugs than you can shake a plasma rifle at (how does one rifle plasma?). It’s a bit like “Starship Troopers” meets “High Noon.” One of the few novels I’ve read multiple times. This film and “Old Man’s War” are pretty much tied for second. I grew up a HUGE Robert Heinlein fan. He was my favorite author from the moment I stumbled across Tunnel in the Sky in my school library. I went on to read everything he wrote, with The Door Into Summer becoming my favorite novel as a youngster. I read it 11 times. I wrote Heinlein a fan letter when I was in the sixth grade and got a note back from his wife, Virginia, which was almost as thrilling for me as if it had been from the man himself, since I had read so many times that Virginia was the model for many of the female characters in his books. I still hold a ton of affection for Heinlein’s works, even as my personal politics have morphed into something far removed from his. I PREFER the movie to the book, for precisely the reasons that so many Heinlein fans hate it — because Verhoeven flipped its thesis and made the humans the bad guys. I think the film is one of the best critiques of fascism ever produced by Hollywood and does a better job of exploring propaganda than Inglorious Basterds did a decade later. Never read the novel, but the human fascism in the movie had me rooting for the bugs. One more thing: Dizzy > Carmen “Nor do I think it’s a particular heresy to enjoy the movie, even if one prefers the novel.” IMO the best way to approach this is to treat the book and the movie as two separate stories, even if one is assumed to be the source material. Think “The Shining” by Stephen King and “The Shining” by Kubrick. Different stories, both phenomenal. Pointing out where the movie diverges from the novel is tedious, unnecessary, and results in frustration. Enjoying each on its own merit doubles the pleasure. Similarly, “Dune” was a pleasant read, and “Dune” was a great movie(s). “Starship Troopers”, same thing. “Would it have got as much attention without Heinlein’s name attached? I suspect not.” I’m not sure how many folks who saw the movie when it came out would have even heard of Heinlein. So I’m skeptical about the name being used as a marketing ploy. @Mark, I’ve always thought that the combat in the Starship Troopers movie owed much more to the combat in Steakley’s novel than to Heinlein’s. “Armor” is criminally under-rated, and I’ve read it several times myself! Though that first half/second half break is a bit jarring the first time around. Maybe someday it’ll get the screen adaptation it deserves. His novel Vampire$ got one. My feelings about the novel/movie situation are more or less in agreement with David Bofinger, but perhaps a bit more so. @wiredog: As I read it, the fascist society that Verhoeven is satirizing being racist does not equate to Verhoeven being so; indeed, I believe that’s part of the satire. @Geoffrey Hart: while Heinlein and a few of his characters may claim that federal service can be and mostly is non-military, most of the characters in the book don’t seem to have gotten the memo: I’ve been on (even moderated) panels on this very topic, so I’ll force myself to stop here. In sum, my position is that if the movie claimed no connection to Heinlein I would enjoy it a fair bit. But the fact that it does spits in Heinlein’s very face, and I have a hard time ignoring that enough to enjoy the enjoyable parts. @Patrick V. My understanding is that the reason Juan “Johnny” Rico’s heritage was “treated as inconsequential” was because it was meant as a surprise reveal for the (even more) racist American readers of the time who wouldn’t have gotten behind a non-white protagonist if they’d known about it from the start. This is presumably also the reason why the races of the characters in The Moon is a Harsh Mistress were barely mentioned… right up until two of them were arrested out of the blue while visiting America for violating the miscegenation laws that still existed when the novel was written. I grew up on the book and have never seen the movie, but your writing on this blog over the years is the reason I have not and am not collapsing in vapors because of how they ruined the book. In my oldage I truly feel thankful for the perspective you’ve given me. I think, Mr. Scazli, that this particular relatively old school Heinlein fan is within a few months of your own age… And yes, WOUND UP… grin I was horrified when it came out, no doubt. But hey, everyone is allowed to like what they like, right? Since Pete has linked to an online analysis of the film, I thought I’d add two that I really like. Heavy Spoilers examines the film’s worldbuilding and the subtle (and not-so-subtle) ways in which the film mocks, rather than promotes fascism: And Rowan J. Coleman, who’s currently my favorite YouTube genre critic, gives an overview of the production, and what makes the film work: It’s the final part of a trilogy of videos (which is also available in his channel as one long “supercut”) about Paul Verhoeven’s science fiction films. Highly recommended. The sad truth is, it’s not even nearly the worse s-f adaptation ever. (Poul Anderson fans might know what I mean here…) ‘Destination Moon’ is still a fun watch. When I saw this, and I liked it, and I’m an old person much influenced by Heinlein, I was excited by the special effects, thinking that now that they could do realistic aliens, we’d be seeing more SF based movies. I sas the premiere of Starship Trooper’s at LoneStarCon 2 back in 1997, and the audience reaction to the film was peppered with lots of boos. I enjoyed it for what it was though, and what do you expect when you hire the director of Robocop? A satire, of course! That said, I never have thought of Heinlein as a fascist, and I can understand why the film rubbed fans of Heinlein the wrong way. I recently returned to the books of my youth for another look. Farnham’s Freehold was just PAINFUL in so many ways!!! I have a personal gripe that I should indeed let go of, in the category of “the movie was worse than the book.” I am a big fan of animation (while finding most other film to be meh). I still remember learning, decades ago, that my favorite filmmaker would be doing my all-time favorite book (Miyazaki doing Diana Wynne Jones’ “Howl’s Moving Castle”). Happy dance! I suppose I was bound to be disappointed, but it is so egregious for him to insert an entire WAR into the story. Still annoyed. The best experience of the story now IMHO is to take selected stills from the movie and treat them as illustrations while reading the book. “Comfort watch” to describe a film with lots of flying limbs and gore gives me pause. I’m not sure if I should give Scalzi the “is this guy a weirdo” look I gave an audience member who praised Garth Ennis’ and Glenn Fabry’s “Preacher” for its accurate depictions of the effects of gunshots on the human body. Sorry, John, but no. I walked out of Starship Troopers in an absolute rage. Verhooven’s movie was a flat slap in the face to Heinlein’s novel and as deliberate as it gets. The bugs’ special effects were fabulous. The rest of the movie was grating in its sins of omission and commission. Omissions: powered armor, drops, the Skinnies, personal growth of Johnnie Rico into a decent and responsible human being. Commissions: fascist obsessions, a brutalist Sgt. Zim when he was anything but that, cheap nudity and sex, decent characters turned into total a$$holes in the service of satire and cheap attractions, the most fakey and repusive queen bug imaginable. Actually, the animated series was far closer to the original novel than Verhooven’s abomination, although its early motion-capture animation is hopelessly dated. As you pointed out, I still have the novel. I certainly will never watch Verhooven’s abomination again. Further to movies being a different medium, I recall a textbook on screen writing where, near the end, after lessons had been learned, as an exercise, there was a classic short (public domain) story. The trick was to translate the classic to screen. A student couldn’t write it as it was: for one thing a screen version would require inventing a protagonist. About then I remember reading in a (Science Fiction Age?) magazine where some romantics were making a movie version of Heinlein’s The Puppet Masters. When I read they were enthusiastic about using “exact dialogue from the book” I groaned, knowing they didn’t care about translating to screen—The flic would surely be a dog. please do not close this page too soon I am going to need to actually think prior to typing as well as revise at least twice if to respond fully ST-as-book was more than one thing with many, many things to defend about it… earning citizenship by contributing is in theory rational so long as there’s multiple paths that are non-military as detailed in prose ST-as-movie being so flawed making it necessary for me to turn my brain off when watching it… an accordion? in a combat zone? why not a bellowing cloud of dark smoke so the enemy know your exact position? but to really dig in deep? I’ll need 3,000 words and five days to choose which of 5,000 ought be those 3,000 to be posted so… challenge accepted huge pot of black tea with an ounce of finely sliced ginger and spoonfuls of anise seeds being boiled up For me I could deal with the whole “turn the plot into fascist satire” stuff. For all that I enjoy reading Heinlein, and don’t think he was seriously advocating the system in the book as perfect so much as putting an argument out there for discussion, I have to seriously admit the movie setting is the more logical outcome of his “veterans get pissed and set up their own government run by them” scenario. But I am still irked they dumped the power armor! That was like one of the main sci-fi ideas of the book, and just dropping it felt like the most tremendous waste of getting the license. Forget all the “Hollywood wouldn’t want to not show the actor’s face” crap; if Robert Downey Jr can get as famous as he has playing Iron Man, this is a problem that can be worked around (hell, most people shrug off the “transparent faceplate lit from within” designs of space suits/armor as required suspension of disbelief). Oddly enough there was actually a kids cartoon version of the movie (toned down the politics to just fighting the bugs, obviously), and that one managed to have both the power armor and even the Skinnies in it, and it worked quite well. So it’s not like nobody could think of a way to do it, but apparently they were so focused on the fascism plot they didn’t want to bother with any sci-fi beyond the bugs. Which to be fair, I think I did like better than the book’s version; biotech was a good way to go with them. I’m an old school Heinlein fan who is only in their early 40s, but I do already have a cane to whack with. For me, the book and movie are two entirely separate entities. I don’t conflate them at all and enjoy both on their own merits. I do wish more of his works were adapted. I think that others of his works would make great movies. I’m also an old-school Heinlein fan who is not close to seventy yet. And I don’t use a cane. I’m well aware of the problematic nature of some of his work, and honestly, I recognized some of that even when I was a kid. The other thing I learned from science fiction and comics as a kid was the concept of a multiverse, which makes dealing with adaptations much easier (at least in my head). In an infinite array of universes, there’s lots of room for different interpretations of things. I don’t care if things match the source material if they are interesting and many times the adaptation is actually better! And to complete my heresy, I actually frequently prefer it when adaptations are different from the source material. I already read the source and know how it ends. And I can read it again. Surprise me! Posted on December 18, 2025 Posted by John Scalzi 59 Comments If you should ever want to wind up an old-school Robert Heinlein fan — which, by the way, you shouldn’t do, they’re all clocking seventy-plus years now, and you should respect your elders — tell them you enjoy the movie version of Starship Troopers more than the Heinlein novel on which it was (somewhat loosely) based. Then move fast, because if you don’t, you’re gonna get whacked upside the head with a cane. Those OG Heinlein fans may be older now, but they’re spry , and if there is one heresy remaining for them, a preference for the film over the novel would be it. And in many respects they are not wrong. The movie version of Starship Troopers wasn’t originally based (directly) on the novel; screenwriter Ed Neumeier wrote up a sci-fi action movie treatment called Bug Hunt at Outpost 7 that did not reference the novel at all. It was only later in the development process that Neumeier and producer Jon Davidson learned the rights to the novel were available and optioned them, and started grafting elements of Heinlein’s tale onto the spine of Outpost 7 . Add in director Paul Verhoeven, who legend has it couldn’t even get through the novel but knew he wanted to satirize fascism in the film, and you end up a final cinematic product that is to Heinlein’s novel like grape soda is to an actual grape. As it turns out, however, a lot of people like the taste of grape soda. I happen to be one of them. Nor do I think it’s a particular heresy to enjoy the movie, even if one prefers the novel. Very few movies adapted from novels are scrupulously faithful to their source material, and the few that are, are usually weirdly paced and unwieldly (looking at you, Watchmen , and even that changed the ending). The things that make for a great novel are not often the things that make for a great cinematic experience, and vice-versa, as some of the greatest films in history are made from mediocre books (looking at you, The Godfather ). Whenever I mention to people that my novel Old Man’s War is under option, there’s someone who inevitably tells me, I hope they keep it true to the novel . I can assure you they probably will not. As just one example, at one point Chris Hemsworth was attached to star in the movie. Do you think they would pay Hemsworth $20 million (or whatever) to be in the movie, and then paint him green, to match the description of his character in the novel? I do not. Nor do I think a star on the level of Hemsworth would have wanted to be that color. It’s not easy being green, by which I mean that he (and many many other characters) would have to spend hours in makeup every morning. They’d save time and money letting him be his original hue. I was a movie critic for years and now for years I’ve been having works optioned for film and television. So I am here to tell you, with some authority: Movies always deviate from the novels. The question is less, why aren’t they being faithful to the source material. The question: Is what they’re doing to the source material interesting? That’s the question I ask when I watch a movie based on a novel. What Paul Verhoeven is doing in Starship Troopers is very interesting. No one was asking for a pop art scifi movie that was ostensibly about shooting big damn alien bugs but was really a mediation about the quiet mainstreaming of fascistic thought and imagery into everyday life, and how all that glossy, idealized ubermensch aesthetic and thinking falls apart once it meets the chaos of war. But surprise! Here it is! Would you like to know more? The story at least initially follows the novel’s outline: Johnny Rico (the impossibly square-jawed Casper Van Dien) is a callow, rich pretty boy who is not too smart, but is also vaguely dissatisfied with the cushy life being laid out for him. So when his pals Carmen (Denise Richards) and Carl (Neil Patrick Harris) sign up for Federal Service to fight against a bug-like alien race called the Arachnids, he sort of goes along, too, annoying his parents in the process. Boot camp is hard for Johnny, and he almost calls it quits, but then his home town of Buenos Aires gets smooshed by an Arachnid-guided meteorite, and then, well, it is on . Nearly everything up to this point in the film, save for a brief intro battle sequence, has the flat and brightly-lit affect of 90s teen television: it all looks like Starship Troopers 90210 , up to and including absolutely beautiful “teenagers” who are clearly well into their 20s, if not older (of the main trio Van Dien was 27 when filming started, Richards was 24 and Harris was the baby at 22). And this is the point: Verhoeven wants to seduce you with hot kids in a nice clean world that seems great as long as you ignore the public executions, the denial of voting status for most people, the military dictatorship, and, you know, the war out there in space. But then you get to that war out in space, and you know what happens to all those really hot kids? Nothing good! And that’s where Verhoeven springs his trap. All the physical beauty in the world won’t save you in battle! All those really cool, vaguely-nazi-looking uniforms don’t look nearly as good shredded and covered in blood! And all the training and/or indoctrination you might get means nothing when the military command tells you little and sends you to die by the shipload. Verhoeven, who has never been shy about gouts of blood, severed limbs and gore, paints his masterpiece here in the viscera of the young, who ten seconds before looked like they should be in a Gap ad. The director holds up the fascistic perfection of a Leni Riefenstahl film, specifically to gleefully dash, slash, and splash it into the dirt. Ironically (or perhaps not so ironically, because this is the US and we don’t do irony especially well), lots of folks didn’t clue into what Verhoeven was up to, accusing the famously anti-fascist director of glorifying Nazism, an accusation which Verhoeven was flabbergasted by. It would take years, long after the movie was out of the theaters and into home video, for most people to fully get what he was up to. Some people still don’t like it; many old school Heinlein fans continue to be enraged that Verhoeven’s lardering his story with fascistic imagery painted their favorite writer with the authoritarian brush. I don’t think Heinlein ever landed on the “fascist” square at any point in his life. It’s certainly true, however, that Heinlein was moving target, politics-wise; how else can you describe someone who worked on the campaigns of both Upton Sinclair, a socialist and Democrat (who ran for governor of California in the 1930s) and the uberconservative Barry Goldwater, who ran for president in 1964? Heinlein’s politics started left and sauntered right and added in a dollop of free-love weirdness (to, uhhhhh, say the least ) in there to confuse everybody. The dynamic range of his politics over his life (and how that leaked into his fiction) means that if one wants to, one can cobble together an image of him through his work that these days gives off an authoritarian odor. Starship Troopers , the novel, is the prime source for that. The blatantly fascist imagery of the movie, satire or not, doesn’t help his fans make an argument against that. I’ve gone into the weeds with the politics of Starship Troopers , so let me note that aside from the design of the movie, it’s also a sharply-paced action film, where the bug-killin’s both varied and plentiful: if you’re looking to see a bunch of alien bugs get ripped up by humans as much as the humans get ripped up by the aliens, this is your film. The CGI in film remains immaculate; thirty years on, it’s wild how good and how threatening the arachnids look. This film doesn’t have just one or two of them, sneaking about ala the Alien films; no, it piles them on in the hundreds, and they very much look like they are going to fuck everyone up. As Carl points out, “It’s a numbers game. They have more.” Boy, do they ever. There are very few scenes in the film where it ever feels like the humans have the upper hand, and even when they do, they’re as likely to lose a few fingers than not. Whatever else this movie is, it’s a good action-adventure film, if not, exactly, a feel-good action-adventure film. Like so many other Paul Verhoeven films, Starship Trooper s is a chaotic mess of tones; all those action scenes and pointed imagery and pretty, pretty people, tossed into a stylistic blender and sent a-whirlin’ at the highest speed setting. Almost thirty years ago now I wrote a review of this film that started with “Paul Verhoeven is a director who can give you everything you want in a movie, as long as you want too much of it.” You know what? I stand behind that sentence. Verhoeven thinks subtlety is for cowards, and he’s having none of it here, and you’re not getting of it, either. You either accept this is going to be a firehose of a movie, or you get out of the way. To get back to those old school Heinlein fans, many of whom I like very much as humans, I can only offer the following advice to them, in terms of how to think about their beloved book, and this heretical film Hey! There’s a novel called Starship Troopers! It’s pretty good! Coincidentally and unrelated, there’s a movie called Starship Troopers! It’s also pretty good! Not the same, but pretty good. You can’t copyright titles, you know. It was inevitable there would be a movie and novel with the same name, otherwise having little to do with each other. These things happen. And that’s okay. Also, wait until I tell you about the remarkable coincidence that happened with I, Robot. — JS I know what you mean; I fell in love with A Boy and His Dog despite the changes and the fact that Harlan was my favorite author at the time. It WORKS In terms of one’s work being optioned into another medium, I learned today that Naomi Novik’s Temeraire novels are going to come out as a table-top RPG sometime in the near future (crowdfund pre-signups are open now). John – have any of your works come out with a table-top RPG? If not, are you open to discussing why – maybe in a future post? Starship Troopers is the only good sequel to Robocop and it’s best to pretend the movie Starship Troopers doesn’t have sequels either. As an isolated duology for a fun double feature, Robocop and Starship Troopers have a lot to say, much of it thematic between the two, and probably Verhoeven was the only director in each respective year to try to say it. Poe’s Law suggests it shouldn’t be a surprise that sequels to both confused allegory and satire for seriousness and never had anything to say in the same pointed way. The podcast It Was a Sh*t Show did a great deep dive into the making of Starship Troopers, including Paul Verhoeven’s fascism-hating origin story. Not sure if links will work in Whatever but the title is Sh*t Show Podcast: Starship Troopers (1997) The question is less, why aren’t they being faithful to the source material. The question: Is what they’re doing to the source material interesting? Well… I agree it’s rarely possible to be literally faithful to the source. However, I think it is possible to be faithful to the spirit of the source – the themes and general story. My favorite example there is David Lynch’s Dune and Peter Hyams’ 2010 , which came out pretty close to each other. Neither one is literally close to the source material (being charitable). 2010 excised the entire subplot about the Chinese spaceship, and inserted a Cold War to-the-brink subplot to crank up tensions between the US and Soviet crews. I do miss the Tsien , and feel the Cold War plot was overly strident. But the thing is? One of my favorite bits about the Clarke novel is how it projects a pretty harmonious post-Cold War spirit, with the crews being very collegial and friendly. And the movie ends up there, though with far less subtlety. So even though it doesn’t follow the book very closely, I enjoyed the movie. Lynch, OTOH… well, on a personal level, the impression I had of source-Dune’s imperial society was a very mannered, must-be-calm-and-not-show-fear life. So Lynch’s casual grotesqueries were pretty off-putting. But in more general themes, the source novel had a subtle but strong anti-messiah message, and the movie bought into the surface Hero narrative (see Alia’s “He IS the Kwisatz Haderach” at the end). There was also the secondary theme of distrusting machines and boosting native human potential – the mentats, for example. The deliberate stacking of the deck with the shield, to promote hand-to-hand combat. And particularly the comparison between the Fremen and the Saudarkar as products of hostile planetary environments, and the note that Duke Leto had trained a small cadre of fighters within a hair of the feared imperial troops. All of that was not just lost, but repudiated, with the “weirding device”; a magic bit of technology that was the secret strength of the Atreides, replacing the thorough and skilled training in the source novel. So two movies that make big divergences from their source novels; but one that ends up saying the same thing differently, the other completely changing the message. Back to the topic… yeah, I think I agree the Starship Troopers movie does interesting things with its source material, and I can even agree with its intent. But I think fans of the original novel can be justifiably angry with the way its themes were treated. I came here to put up the same link Pete. :) “and added in a dollop of free-love weirdness ” I’ve always attributed that heel turn to his stroke, since from what I remember it really became pronounced after he had it. I liked the movie, though I went into it with very low expectations as the posters made it clear it was not a faithful adaptation (no power armor, for one thing.) I have a love/hate relationship with Heinlein the author; being of a certain age, my introduction to scifi is heavily weighted in favor of the Grand Masters. Being a woman of a certain age has left only Bradbury relatively unscathed. (Yes, I’m aware of the misogyny arguments. Yes, I’d also read an Scalzi essay on the various failings of the Grand Masters.) I do love this movie though, for the absolutely bonkers ( at the time) take on American politics, and the comeuppance of pretty, pretty people. I also think Troopers has aged better than Verhoven’s Robocop, it’s an aged cheddar vs a Kraft single. I can’t say that Troopers is a comfort watch for me right now, ask me again in 2028. @John, please spill any tea you have on I, Robot. I own a copy of the book version of the illustrated screenplay written by Ellison– that is indeed a movie I would like to see! As for the Chris Hemsworth scenario…it’s worth remembering that we don’t need the body paint routine these days. Not unless he wants to try it. He almost certainly remembers how Mark Ruffalo handled Hulk mode with a bit of training from Andy Serkis… Hey! I’m not clocking seventy-plus years! I’m only clocking fifty-plus! I want to enjoy the movie qua movie. I can enjoy little pieces of it in isolation. And if it were an entirely different movie without the association with Heinlein i definitely would enjoy it! But it’s really hard for me to keep the two media containerized in my mind, and every time someone points at the movie as “evidence” that Heinlein was a fascist it gets a little harder. There are other cases where a movie has been just as different from the source material as this is where i’ve been able to enjoy both. But in this case Heinlein was such a formative part of my SF experience growing up, and the political nature of the changes are so extreme, that i just have a tough time with it. But kudos to you for being able to maintain that distinction yourself and enjoy them both! I’m almost disappointed you didn’t say “Would you like to know more?” The little snippet pieces really stay with you afterwards (I’m thinking of the women jumping up and down clapping as some kids kill bugs, and some of the scenes we see on Fox News as they praise the supreme leader. Way too scarily like real life now). It showed what you could do with CGI, and it’s a capstone of the 1990s action movies. Ya, I try to be objective about different mediums. I’ve always thought the movie Serenity failed because the makers got mixed up with some TV show called Firefly which movie-goers wouldn’t give a care about. (No, I won’t give examples, and yes I love Browncoats) As for the written Heinlein, my favourite decades are not necessarily someone else’s favourite decades—It’s like how I feel sorry for anyone who mixes up the decadent third-world Roman Empire for the virtuous first world Roman republic. Same city, different space-time. If Verhoeven had made his film, with different character names and titled whatever production made of Bug Hunt at Outpost 7, how would we have reacted? Perhaps nodded politely at the anti-fascist framing story, while wondering aloud whether it was undermined by fascists being the sympathetic viewpoint characters for most of the plot. Would it have got as much attention without Heinlein’s name attached? I suspect not. To whatever extent it stole Heinlein’s reputation as a marketing technique it’s fair enough to be offended and I think it stole quite a bit. Given the reception of the more canonical remake of The Running Man, it makes me sad that a more canonical adaptation of Starship Troopers will probably never happen now. But if you don’t paint the actors green, then the Rrey joke “skip these ones, they aren’t ripe” joke doesn’t land. If James Cameron can get a blockbuster movie that’s mostly blue CGI cats, you can get your green-skinned old farts. @Paul: psst: end of paragraph 7… “But surprise! Here it is! Do you want to know more?” @Scalzi – I am SO glad you ended with that I, Robot ending. I’ve been arguing since it came out that as an unrelated movie it’s just fine, and me a huge fan of the books first! I still have many of them! Also Beastmaster, which was so unrelated to the book Norton had her credit taken off. And that’s where Verhoeven springs his trap. All the physical beauty in the world won’t save you in battle! Well, yeah, that’ll happen when you have your guys surround a bug in a circle, and all shoot at once. I saw Starship Troopers in the theater, after reading a bunch of Heinlein in high school. I’ve made peace with judging things on their own, rather than pining because my mental images from written media are translated differently into other media. Unfortunately for Starship Troopers, the 20-ft-tall vag-brain supervillain quivering under torture is an indelible image in my mind, and was off-putting to the point of never wanting to re-watch the movie. There are a lot of movies out there, and life is too short! As others have said, they can green skin in post – it’s been done before! Heated Rivalry is a series that’s faithful to the spirit of the (MM romance) books, but not the exact content. They did really well finding a director and actors who could do that. Way back in the future year of 2000, I got my MA based on a dissertation explaining why Robocop, Total Recall and Starship Troopers were Verhoevan’s three parts of a future history. Imagine my surprise/pleasure when what I thought was a dope, original idea had also been posited by JS! Also, I find it interesting that people who lionise the authoritarian elements of ST the novel always seem to forget/ignore that Heinlein moves into space communism in The Moon is a Harsh Mistress via the space hippy mysticism of Stranger in a Strange Land. It’s almost like a certain personality needs to cherry pick their justifications… I watched when this first came out and aside from my disappointment with one story aspect, I thought it was a pretty good movie, agree with your take here 100 percent. The disappointment was in changing Johnny Rico’s nationality. Though it was treated as inconsequential in the novel, I was thrilled when Johnny mentioned that he was Filipino (being Filipino myself) in the novel. I’m with you on Starship Troopers. I love the movie, but at the same time acknowledge that it’s not a very good Heinlein adaptation. The movie dispenses with some of the key parts of the book. First is the whole notion of the History and Moral Philosophy class, which the film only barely mentions in passing. It would have been hard to film; way too talky. Another is the Mobile Infantry suits. Heinlein doesn’t describe them in quite the amount of loving detail that the titular suit in Have Space Suit — Will Travel gets, but they still get quite a bit of page time. Again, they would have been hard to film; who wants to make a movie where the stars spend half their time encased in full body armor? Avatar later showed us how it COULD have been done, but Starship Troopers didn’t have the effects budget for that even if Verhoeven had thought of it. Heinlein would have hated those suits anyway because they’re utter nonsense in engineering terms; why would anyone make the thing vulnerable with those huge picture windows? Finally, the military balance is very different from the book. In the book, the MI are highly trained and well equipped troops that are not cannon fodder; any losses are lamented. In contrast, the Bugs are poorly equipped for combat, but their numbers are HUGE and they breed quickly. SPI did a wargame based on Starship Troopers that is true to that aspect; the Bugs always lose in any conventional military sense, but the game objectives reflect the nature of a war of high tech vs overwhelming numbers. It’s hard to pin down the actual ideology of Heinlein, as it is not fully consistent between his books. I think the purest distillation of what he believed is Time Enough For Love, and in particular the quotes from the notebooks of Lazarus Long that appear as two interludes in the middle of the book. They were also published as a standalone book with fancy calligraphy. The free love stuff? We found out posthumously that he was there from the start, when his unpublished first novel For Us, The Living finally saw the light of day. But that sort of thing was unpublishable in the early days of his career, which was one of the reasons that the book was unpublished. (The other was that it was not all that well written, which isn’t surprising for a bit of early writing.) He reused bits and pieces of it in his published works. Even if he HAD attempted an accurate translation of the book to film, I doubt it would have attracted much of an audience. The book reads like the ideas in it are meant to be taken seriously (though as I said, that’s not entirely clear), and I don’t think there was much of an audience for those ideas in the cynical 1990s or now. (Vietnam was a loss of innocence for the US; after that experience it became much more difficult to stomach that kind of uncritical patriotism, even if the current president is trying to revive it.) Hardcore Heinlein fans might have loved it, but nobody else would have shown up. So Verhoeven instead made it a cautionary tale about fascism and propaganda; the ads promoting military service were very well done. Finally, let us recognize the genius of the infamous shower scene. Sure, it doesn’t really belong in Starship Troopers; it feels like it was borrowed from The Forever War. But in a few short moments of film, it shows the complete gender integration of the film’s version of the MI, while at the same time delivering a lot of gratuitous eye candy for everyone. P.S. — I don’t think Time Enough For Love could be turned into a movie; there is just too much material, and an accurate film would get an NC-17 rating which is box office poison. But it could be a great limited series for HBO or Netflix, neither of which shies away from nudity, and the episodic nature of the book makes it a natural for a series. Or perhaps Prime Video; it surely would have been more interesting and less of a waste of a billion dollars than their horrible Lord of the Rings series. I was a junior in high school when Starship Troopers came out in theaters. At then 17, with then zero knowledge of the source material, this was a was a wild experience for my young mind. It stays with you through the years. Neill Blomkamp, known for District 9, is attempting a reboot of Starship Troopers that will be more faithful to the book. I’m not sure whether to be excited or afraid. Story: https://variety.com/2025/film/news/starship-troopers-remake-set-neill-blomkamp-1236338005/ Great review and discussion. I’m in the “like the book but also like the movie for entirely different reasons” cadre. I ‘get’ that it was a satire on military ‘recruitment’, but it bugs me (sic) that so many (young, non-sf-reading) people might think it actually represents Heinlein’s work. And that, post watching this, actually picking up the book might turn them off to Heinlein’s work. Then again, I recognize that much of Heinlein’s work is becoming increasingly dated. Some painfully so. Couldn’t finish ‘Stranger’ last time I tried to re-read it. Still enjoy Double Star, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, (and Troopers,of course.) As for the movie, meh. I wish they’d not used the Heinlein names at all. Casper VanD as ‘Juan Rico’ ? Just plain dumb. @Shirley Dulcey “Neill Blomkamp… is attempting a reboot of Starship Troopers that will be more faithful to the book.” Would rather a mini-series than a big-budget f/x fiasco. But I’d rather just re-read it, as a treatise on duty and citizenship, and watch other things. You have to remember that a movie and a book are two entirely different things. They will treat the same scene/event quite differently. They’re trying to influence two different parts of your brain. One paints word pictures, the other paints visual pictures. Two different media, two different products. Comparing a book to a film is like comparing a tangerine to a pizza. They’re both food, but… Just my (not-so) humble opinion. A fascinating glimpse of RAH’s “political views” (however defined) can be obtained by noting that Starship Troopers was written while Stranger in a Strange Land was being written, so he takes a break from sharing water to sharing bug spray… While this movie might have been meant as a satire on corny ”recruitment” films, have those really been a big thing since the WWII era? (Top Gun notwithstanding.) I mean, we’ve had Platoon, Full Metal Jacket etc. etc. around for a long time now. Troopers was so long after ‘Nam that it’s beside any point it may have intended. For my money, UNcomfortable on too many levels. Since this inevitably comes up, a small clarification: Heinlein explicitly stated that the military was just one way a citizen could serve their country to earn citizenship and the right to vote. And if you didn’t want to vote, like the near-majority of eligible voters in many countries, you didn’t have to serve. I used to have the text and page number reference close at hand to support that point, but some years ago I gave up. Read the book if you don’t believe me. In effect, he was describing a “selective service” system much like the national service systems in some Scandinavian and Nordic countries. However, being a realist about fiction, he realized that writing a slam-bam patriotic military conflict was a better way to earn a million bucks than a quiet story about someone planting trees or delivering social services. (It was also a tip of the hat to his many friends and colleagues who served in the military.) Here endeth my TED Talk. “Paul Verhoeven is a director who can give you everything you want in a movie, as long as you want too much of it.” OMG yes. Showgirls did what I thought would be impossible, made me tired of seeing… Well, you know. By the time the movie came out I’d read the novel a couple of times and been in the Army. And what I noticed was the casting. IIRC, there were no non-white people anywhere. Which was very different from my experience and which explicitly contradicted the book. So my immediate conclusion, based on the evidence onscreen, was the Verhoeven was racist even by 1990’s American standards. Which makes it hard to enjoy the movie. Apparently he’s just European and didn’t have much experience with non-European people. But still, every time I watch it the whitewashing just grates. This is one of those movies the Internet loves to hate. I’ll admit, I didn’t hate it, even though I’m one of those old-school Heinlein fans (and I recognize that he doesn’t hold up as well in the modern era). I always read it as more of a send-up of the military-industrial complex, but maybe the fascism is just builtin there. The movie is definitely over-the-top, but I suspect that was the point. I’m doing my part! My favorite “Starship Troopers” related work is John Steakley’s “Armor.” It’s got more bugs than you can shake a plasma rifle at (how does one rifle plasma?). It’s a bit like “Starship Troopers” meets “High Noon.” One of the few novels I’ve read multiple times. This film and “Old Man’s War” are pretty much tied for second. I grew up a HUGE Robert Heinlein fan. He was my favorite author from the moment I stumbled across Tunnel in the Sky in my school library. I went on to read everything he wrote, with The Door Into Summer becoming my favorite novel as a youngster. I read it 11 times. I wrote Heinlein a fan letter when I was in the sixth grade and got a note back from his wife, Virginia, which was almost as thrilling for me as if it had been from the man himself, since I had read so many times that Virginia was the model for many of the female characters in his books. I still hold a ton of affection for Heinlein’s works, even as my personal politics have morphed into something far removed from his. I PREFER the movie to the book, for precisely the reasons that so many Heinlein fans hate it — because Verhoeven flipped its thesis and made the humans the bad guys. I think the film is one of the best critiques of fascism ever produced by Hollywood and does a better job of exploring propaganda than Inglorious Basterds did a decade later. Never read the novel, but the human fascism in the movie had me rooting for the bugs. One more thing: Dizzy > Carmen “Nor do I think it’s a particular heresy to enjoy the movie, even if one prefers the novel.” IMO the best way to approach this is to treat the book and the movie as two separate stories, even if one is assumed to be the source material. Think “The Shining” by Stephen King and “The Shining” by Kubrick. Different stories, both phenomenal. Pointing out where the movie diverges from the novel is tedious, unnecessary, and results in frustration. Enjoying each on its own merit doubles the pleasure. Similarly, “Dune” was a pleasant read, and “Dune” was a great movie(s). “Starship Troopers”, same thing. “Would it have got as much attention without Heinlein’s name attached? I suspect not.” I’m not sure how many folks who saw the movie when it came out would have even heard of Heinlein. So I’m skeptical about the name being used as a marketing ploy. @Mark, I’ve always thought that the combat in the Starship Troopers movie owed much more to the combat in Steakley’s novel than to Heinlein’s. “Armor” is criminally under-rated, and I’ve read it several times myself! Though that first half/second half break is a bit jarring the first time around. Maybe someday it’ll get the screen adaptation it deserves. His novel Vampire$ got one. My feelings about the novel/movie situation are more or less in agreement with David Bofinger, but perhaps a bit more so. @wiredog: As I read it, the fascist society that Verhoeven is satirizing being racist does not equate to Verhoeven being so; indeed, I believe that’s part of the satire. @Geoffrey Hart: while Heinlein and a few of his characters may claim that federal service can be and mostly is non-military, most of the characters in the book don’t seem to have gotten the memo: I’ve been on (even moderated) panels on this very topic, so I’ll force myself to stop here. In sum, my position is that if the movie claimed no connection to Heinlein I would enjoy it a fair bit. But the fact that it does spits in Heinlein’s very face, and I have a hard time ignoring that enough to enjoy the enjoyable parts. @Patrick V. My understanding is that the reason Juan “Johnny” Rico’s heritage was “treated as inconsequential” was because it was meant as a surprise reveal for the (even more) racist American readers of the time who wouldn’t have gotten behind a non-white protagonist if they’d known about it from the start. This is presumably also the reason why the races of the characters in The Moon is a Harsh Mistress were barely mentioned… right up until two of them were arrested out of the blue while visiting America for violating the miscegenation laws that still existed when the novel was written. I grew up on the book and have never seen the movie, but your writing on this blog over the years is the reason I have not and am not collapsing in vapors because of how they ruined the book. In my oldage I truly feel thankful for the perspective you’ve given me. I think, Mr. Scazli, that this particular relatively old school Heinlein fan is within a few months of your own age… And yes, WOUND UP… grin I was horrified when it came out, no doubt. But hey, everyone is allowed to like what they like, right? Since Pete has linked to an online analysis of the film, I thought I’d add two that I really like. Heavy Spoilers examines the film’s worldbuilding and the subtle (and not-so-subtle) ways in which the film mocks, rather than promotes fascism: And Rowan J. Coleman, who’s currently my favorite YouTube genre critic, gives an overview of the production, and what makes the film work: It’s the final part of a trilogy of videos (which is also available in his channel as one long “supercut”) about Paul Verhoeven’s science fiction films. Highly recommended. The sad truth is, it’s not even nearly the worse s-f adaptation ever. (Poul Anderson fans might know what I mean here…) ‘Destination Moon’ is still a fun watch. When I saw this, and I liked it, and I’m an old person much influenced by Heinlein, I was excited by the special effects, thinking that now that they could do realistic aliens, we’d be seeing more SF based movies. I sas the premiere of Starship Trooper’s at LoneStarCon 2 back in 1997, and the audience reaction to the film was peppered with lots of boos. I enjoyed it for what it was though, and what do you expect when you hire the director of Robocop? A satire, of course! That said, I never have thought of Heinlein as a fascist, and I can understand why the film rubbed fans of Heinlein the wrong way. I recently returned to the books of my youth for another look. Farnham’s Freehold was just PAINFUL in so many ways!!! I have a personal gripe that I should indeed let go of, in the category of “the movie was worse than the book.” I am a big fan of animation (while finding most other film to be meh). I still remember learning, decades ago, that my favorite filmmaker would be doing my all-time favorite book (Miyazaki doing Diana Wynne Jones’ “Howl’s Moving Castle”). Happy dance! I suppose I was bound to be disappointed, but it is so egregious for him to insert an entire WAR into the story. Still annoyed. The best experience of the story now IMHO is to take selected stills from the movie and treat them as illustrations while reading the book. “Comfort watch” to describe a film with lots of flying limbs and gore gives me pause. I’m not sure if I should give Scalzi the “is this guy a weirdo” look I gave an audience member who praised Garth Ennis’ and Glenn Fabry’s “Preacher” for its accurate depictions of the effects of gunshots on the human body. Sorry, John, but no. I walked out of Starship Troopers in an absolute rage. Verhooven’s movie was a flat slap in the face to Heinlein’s novel and as deliberate as it gets. The bugs’ special effects were fabulous. The rest of the movie was grating in its sins of omission and commission. Omissions: powered armor, drops, the Skinnies, personal growth of Johnnie Rico into a decent and responsible human being. Commissions: fascist obsessions, a brutalist Sgt. Zim when he was anything but that, cheap nudity and sex, decent characters turned into total a$$holes in the service of satire and cheap attractions, the most fakey and repusive queen bug imaginable. Actually, the animated series was far closer to the original novel than Verhooven’s abomination, although its early motion-capture animation is hopelessly dated. As you pointed out, I still have the novel. I certainly will never watch Verhooven’s abomination again. Further to movies being a different medium, I recall a textbook on screen writing where, near the end, after lessons had been learned, as an exercise, there was a classic short (public domain) story. The trick was to translate the classic to screen. A student couldn’t write it as it was: for one thing a screen version would require inventing a protagonist. About then I remember reading in a (Science Fiction Age?) magazine where some romantics were making a movie version of Heinlein’s The Puppet Masters. When I read they were enthusiastic about using “exact dialogue from the book” I groaned, knowing they didn’t care about translating to screen—The flic would surely be a dog. please do not close this page too soon I am going to need to actually think prior to typing as well as revise at least twice if to respond fully ST-as-book was more than one thing with many, many things to defend about it… earning citizenship by contributing is in theory rational so long as there’s multiple paths that are non-military as detailed in prose ST-as-movie being so flawed making it necessary for me to turn my brain off when watching it… an accordion? in a combat zone? why not a bellowing cloud of dark smoke so the enemy know your exact position? but to really dig in deep? I’ll need 3,000 words and five days to choose which of 5,000 ought be those 3,000 to be posted so… challenge accepted huge pot of black tea with an ounce of finely sliced ginger and spoonfuls of anise seeds being boiled up For me I could deal with the whole “turn the plot into fascist satire” stuff. For all that I enjoy reading Heinlein, and don’t think he was seriously advocating the system in the book as perfect so much as putting an argument out there for discussion, I have to seriously admit the movie setting is the more logical outcome of his “veterans get pissed and set up their own government run by them” scenario. But I am still irked they dumped the power armor! That was like one of the main sci-fi ideas of the book, and just dropping it felt like the most tremendous waste of getting the license. Forget all the “Hollywood wouldn’t want to not show the actor’s face” crap; if Robert Downey Jr can get as famous as he has playing Iron Man, this is a problem that can be worked around (hell, most people shrug off the “transparent faceplate lit from within” designs of space suits/armor as required suspension of disbelief). Oddly enough there was actually a kids cartoon version of the movie (toned down the politics to just fighting the bugs, obviously), and that one managed to have both the power armor and even the Skinnies in it, and it worked quite well. So it’s not like nobody could think of a way to do it, but apparently they were so focused on the fascism plot they didn’t want to bother with any sci-fi beyond the bugs. Which to be fair, I think I did like better than the book’s version; biotech was a good way to go with them. I’m an old school Heinlein fan who is only in their early 40s, but I do already have a cane to whack with. For me, the book and movie are two entirely separate entities. I don’t conflate them at all and enjoy both on their own merits. I do wish more of his works were adapted. I think that others of his works would make great movies. I’m also an old-school Heinlein fan who is not close to seventy yet. And I don’t use a cane. I’m well aware of the problematic nature of some of his work, and honestly, I recognized some of that even when I was a kid. The other thing I learned from science fiction and comics as a kid was the concept of a multiverse, which makes dealing with adaptations much easier (at least in my head). In an infinite array of universes, there’s lots of room for different interpretations of things. I don’t care if things match the source material if they are interesting and many times the adaptation is actually better! And to complete my heresy, I actually frequently prefer it when adaptations are different from the source material. I already read the source and know how it ends. And I can read it again. Surprise me!
