Learn the Art The Merro Tree By Katie Waitman Katie Waitman’s 1997 The Merro Tree is a stand-alone space-opera novel. Performance master Mikk of Vyzania’s commitment to his craft is relentless. Even the threat of legal sanctions cannot stop him. This is why Mikk is on trial for his life. Mikk possesses superlative senses, something that in many contexts might have been an asset. Dispatched to what amounts to a boarding school, his inability to ignore distractions leaves him unfocused and gives those around him the impression that he is a useless scatterbrain. Fortuitously for Mikk, not only is Dean Mooj sufficiently invested in his students not to dismiss a problematic student as a waste of time, the grand performance master Huud Maroc encounters Mikk during a rare visit. Huud sees great potential in Mikk and takes him on as an apprentice. What was in the classroom a profound learning disability proves an asset on the stage. Mikk becomes, as readers knew he would from the framing sequence, a superlative performer. Along the way, he also takes on a wide variety of lovers of all species. For Mikk, art comes first. Neither indifference, anger, nor the threat of physical violence will deter him. Therefore, when he encounters the Solomite song dance, he has to master it, despite the disinclination of the Solomites to share their techniques. When every Solomite perishes in a cosmic mishap, he is the last person with any knowledge of the song dance. Before perishing, the Solomites made it clear they wanted the song dance to die with them. The Galactic Council of Performing Arts honors this request with a ban on the Solomite song dance. Mikk, of course, loves his art too much to honour either the Solomite request or the Council ban. Thus, the current trial that may well end with his execution. ~oOo~ This is a science fiction novel, but there are moments of horror. Specifically, there’s a scene in which we learn that New York City has been remodeled per Plan Voisin. I suspect this is a comment on the gentrification to which New York 1 was being subjected when the novel was published. Wait, there are two moments of horror. The other involves Mikk’s extremely terrible mother, who could give pointers in nastiness to Tanith Lee parents. I know this novel has its fans. I’m not one of them. I feel a bit like I am going to be kicking someone’s puppy here. James-specific gripes first: this is a space opera, so plausibility and verisimilitude are not mission one. The world building is on par with, oh, Becky Chambers 2 . Mikk isn’t human (humans are a minor people from a backwater world), but he isn’t not-human in the same sense that a spider or an octopus isn’t human. Behaviourally, he’s human. Any differences are negligible. Even the more alien alien races are not that alien. Everyone seems to be either male or female, no third options. Ask a fungus what they think of binary gender choices. The whole plot comes down to a question that I suspect is a lot more contentious today than it would have been back in 1997. Put simply, can one sample and repurpose the cultural practices of other cultures even when you don’t really understand them and the other cultures don’t want you to do that? Or to put it another way, can you tell a white person to keep their mitts off something without them pitching a fit? Perhaps examples would help. Take, oh, the American national anthem. Currently, it is mainly used to delay sports games. Imagine it zuzhed up and used as a Tim Horton’s jingle. Everyone wins! A Canadian can avoid some effort by borrowing the tune or at least the singable bits and an American song would be morally elevated because a Canadian acknowledged it. Or just suppose we were to take a few religions and discard what we see as nonsense and use the cool bits in a great roleplaying game. Would that be bad? [ Editor’s note: it’s quite common for new religions to riff on an older one. See Abrahamic religions. ] For that matter, there are a lot of kids in the US. Imagine if we could funnel them into some sort of residence-based boarding school, where their Americanness could be burnished away before the surviving children were handed over to childless Canadians. Why would anyone not want that? Digression: my ReacTor editors relentlessly discourage sarcasm as a rhetorical gambit. They are very consistent on that point. I don’t know why. Another way to look at the plot is that it is about consent and one brave artist’s rejection of it in the name of Art. I think we’re supposed to see Mikk as the heroic figure in all this and the Council as a bunch of buzzkill stick-in-the-muds. There’s room for some discussion on that point. Comments are below. The Merro Tree is out of print. 1: USA delenda est. 2: With fewer egregious violations of basic thermodynamics.
