UJAM ’s UFX Series has just gained two new members in the form of UFX Lofi , a new processor that focuses on “degraded, character-rich textures” inspired by tape and early digital effects, and UFX Distort , which is capable of delivering everything from subtle harmonic enhancement to aggressive clipping. Both of the new plug-ins pair their core effects engines with Filter and Finisher sections that come equipped with 40 and 50 presets respectively, providing users with a quick and simple way of creating a whole host of intricate creative effects. They’ll be a familiar sight to those who are familiar with the series’ other offerings, and as you’d expect, offer a similar working approach. As well as sharing the same Filter and Finisher modules, the new plug-ins are also equipped with some powerful randomisation features that have been designed to help users experiment and quickly try out new ideas. Key Features UFX Lofi 20 Engine Modes : a wide selection of digital, analogue and glitch-inspired degradation effects, including Downsample, Bitcrush, Wow/Flutter, Tape Saturation and more. Versatile Controls : Degrade, Slam, Drive, Frequency, Noise and Tape Stop Multi-Effect Architecture : a dedicated Filter section plus a Finisher module for extended sound-shaping options. Over 100 Production-Ready Presets : Includes Mode Templates and categories such as Drums & Beats, Keys & Guitar, Synth to Crush and Creative FX. UFX Distort 20 Engine Modes : Includes Tube Drive, Screamer, Guitar Amp, Hard Clipping, Fuzz, Foldback, Rectify, Multiband, Ring Modulation and more for a wide range of saturation and harmonic shaping. Versatile Controls : Drive, Slam, Post Gain, Lo Cut, Hi Cut, Speaker Select Speaker Mix. Multi-Effect Architecture : a dedicated Filter section plus a Finisher module for extended sound-shaping options. Over 100 Production-Ready Presets : Features Mode Templates and categories such as Drums & Beats, Keys & Guitar, Vocals, Warm, Disto and Creative Sound Design. “Producers already have countless effects — it’s the creative spark we focus on. Instead of building long chains of plug-ins, UFX lets you jump from a filtered bit-crush to a tape-flavoured grain cloud in an instant. After Reverb2, Filter and Delay, the new Lofi and Distort continue that idea, and we’re proud of how they turned out.” - Peter Gorges, Co-Founder, UJAM Compatibility Lofi & Distort are supported on PCs running Windows 10 or higher, and Macs running macOS 11 and above. VST2, VST3, AU and AAX plug-in versions are available. Pricing & Availability Lofi & Distort are both available now, and are currently (2 December 2025) subject to an introductory offer, as well as loyalty discounts for existing UFX Series owners. Prices are as follows: UFX Lofi : Regular $29, Loyalty $19, Full Price $49 UFX Distort : Regular $29, Loyalty $19, Full Price $49 UFX Lofi/Distort Bundle *: Regular $39, Loyalty $29 * The bundle discount will only be available during the introductory pricing offer period.
