Realising autonomous pharmaceutical operations Join this webinar to discover how the pharmaceutical industry can move towards sustainable autonomous operations by implementing solutions that enhance pipeline acceleration, flexible manufacturing, operational integrity and real-time release. In addition to lowering costs, automation reduces manual touchpoints, drives seamless tech transfer, eliminating many associated opportunities for errors and contamination; enables digital integration for reproducibility, traceability and regulatory compliance; and additionally, drives competitive differentiation among life sciences companies. Dive into the essential strategies for creating a sustainable digital roadmap and compelling business case for implementing industrial software & automation solutions in the pharmaceutical industry. Find out about the importance of having a strong data foundation which acts as an enabler and how these solutions can significantly enhance pipeline acceleration and flexible manufacturing while addressing the crucial aspects of operational integrity and real-time release processes. Each of these industry drivers, together with BioPhorum, will be addressed and tangible examples provided on how these solutions have been implemented. For example, learn how to develop a strategy and implement standards for Emerson’s One-Click Technology Transfer™, evolving recipe transfer processes into a digitalised production platform. Whether you are beginning to consider automation and industrial software solutions or looking to strengthen your existing initiatives, this webinar will provide the knowledge and tools needed to effectively advocate for these transformative solutions. Key learning points Understand the key drivers of the pharmaceutical industry and how autonomous operations are shaping its future and driving IT-OT conversion Explore the value of automation in enhancing operational efficiency and driving business growth for life sciences Gain expert insight on the potential benefits of implementing automation solutions. Find out how Emerson is collaborating with industry leaders and organisations to drive the future of life sciences – making it safer, reliable and enabling sustainable operations. Register to secure your free place >>> SPEAKERS Abhro Choudhury – Software Solutions Manager Abhro focuses on enhancing customer engagement and operational efficiency at Emerson, specifically in the pharmaceutical industry. He and his team drive data contextualisation and integration through strategic executive engagements, utilising Enterprise Data Management, IT-OT platforms, and AI/ML for digital advancements in manufacturing and supply chain processes. Their central goal is to promote data-driven decision-making in the pharmaceutical sector. Boris Vanhove – Strategic Initiatives Manager Boris plays a pivotal role in driving digitalisation initiatives within the biotechnology sector. With more than a decade of experience, Boris has honed his expertise in developing marketing strategies that effectively address the unique challenges faced by customers. FAQs FAQs Is the panel discussion free? Yes – there is no charge to watch the panel discussion, either live or on-demand. When will the panel discussion take place? 9 February 2026 at 10am GMT. Can I watch it later? The panel discussion will become available to watch on-demand shortly after the live webinar takes place. What are the benefits of attending live? You’ll be able to ask the speakers your questions, which will be answered live in the Q&A towards the end of the session. How long will the panel discussion be? This panel discussion will last up to an hour. What do I need to watch this panel discussion? All you need is a computer with an internet connection. We recommend using headphones if possible if you’re in an office environment.
