Introduction Welcome to From Zero to QED , an informal introduction to formality in Lean 4. This article series teaches the language from first principles. Lean is expressive but the learning resources remain scattered and incomplete. This series is a best effort to fill that gap. This is the beta release. There are bound to be typos, errors, and rough edges. If you spot something, send a PR on GitHub. This article is itself a giant checkable theorem. Every code sample, every proof, every definition is extracted from source files that the Lean compiler typechecks on every build. If the article compiles, the theorems are valid. The full source lives in the GitHub repository. What This Series Covers The series divides into two arcs. The first arc treats Lean as a programming language. You will learn the syntax, type system, control flow, polymorphism, monads, and IO. By the end of this arc you can write real programs in Lean. The second arc treats Lean as a theorem prover. You will learn to write proofs, understand type theory and dependent types, master tactics, and eventually prove classic mathematical results. The series concludes with the emerging intersection of theorem proving with artificial intelligence, and why formal methods may matter more in the coming decade than they have in the previous five. No prior experience with theorem provers is assumed. Familiarity with a typed functional language like Haskell, OCaml, or Scala helps but is not required. Getting Started The full source code is available on GitHub: github.com/sdiehl/zero-to-qed To run the examples locally, install Lean 4 and clone the repository: git clone https://github.com/sdiehl/zero-to-qed cd zero-to-qed lake build You can also serve the documentation locally with just serve if you have mdBook installed. Additional learning resources are collected in the References appendix. This series is an informal introduction to formality. If you want the stuffy formal introduction to formality, see Theorem Proving in Lean 4, Functional Programming in Lean, Mathematics in Lean, or university courses from CMU, Imperial, and Brown. They are more rigorous.
