{"title":"EatingWell’s Top 10 Food &amp; Nutrition Trends for 2025","author":"Danielle DeAngelis","date":"2024-12-13T18:32:05.242+00:00","main_content":"In 2024, EatingWell accurately predicted trends like hydration, Caesar salad and gut health to be top of mind for many. And for 2025, we’re expecting more nutritious trends to be all the rage—think fibrous pantry staples, low-sugar substitutes and relaxing nonalcoholic drinks.\n\nFrom ingredients you won’t get enough of to foods focused on specific nutrients to help you feel your best, here are our 10 food and health trend predictions for the new year.\n\n1. Anti-Inflammatory Diet\n\nThe anti-inflammatory diet is here to stay. New studies show that a diet focused on anti-inflammatory foods like fruits, vegetables, legumes, nuts, omega-3-rich fish and tea may help decrease risk of cognitive decline, especially if you have a preexisting condition that puts you more at risk, like diabetes.\n\nAnd our readers have been especially intrigued by the anti-inflammatory diet this year, as we’ve noticed that interest has grown 16% since last year. Ring in 2025 by trying some of our favorite inflammation-fighting recipes, like our highly rated Anti-Inflammatory Sweet Potato Salad or our Anti-Inflammatory Cherry, Beet & Kale Smoothie.\n\n2. Tea\n\nLet’s spill the tea: For this trend, we’re talking about how your humble mug of tea can do more than keep you cozy during the wintertime. Tea can also help support your immune system, reduce cancer risk and keep you hydrated, among other healthy benefits. \n\nOur readers are already on board, as the beverage has seen a 200% increase in interest on our website this year. And Whole Foods is also predicting a spotlight on tea in 2025, according to their market forecast report. Whether your preference is green tea, ginger tea or a cup of chai, there are plenty of reasons to sip up this nutritious drink.\n\n3. Tropical Fruit\n\nWe weren’t sure which tropical fruit to choose, so why not all of the above? We predict that your refrigerator will be stocked with an array of summertime fruits—think guava, mango, passion fruit and pineapple—once the weather starts getting warmer, and you won’t be able to get enough of it.\n\nOur readers’ curiosity about tropical fruits has grown by 15% through 2024, and we understand why. From mango securing a spot on Fresh Thyme Market’s grocery trends report to passion fruit’s growing popularity on seemingly every cocktail menu across the nation, these antioxidant-rich, fibrous fruits have been all the rage. Expect to see more tropical flavors on grocery aisle shelves, especially in the drink and snack aisles. But in the meantime, save recipes like our Mango-Turmeric Smoothie and our Hot-Honey Chicken & Pineapple Kebabs to try once the produce is in season.\n\n4. Dates in Place of Added Sugar\n\nDates are finally getting the love they deserve, and for good reason. From stuffed dates to Fig Newton–Inspired Energy Balls, the sweet fruit provides a caramel-like taste, making it a healthier alternative to refined sugar.\n\nAccording to the American Heart Association, added sugar intake should not regularly exceed 36 grams per day for men and 25 grams per day for women, so incorporating delicious substitutes that help you feel your best into your daily routine is a health-conscious approach. It’s clear that lower-sugar foods are progressively appealing (we predicted this as a trend for 2024), and our no-added-sugar recipes and expert advice continue to soar, with a 189% increase in interest. Date syrup may just be your new favorite pantry staple.\n\n5. Honey Mustard\n\nOther nostalgic ’90s flavors have resurfaced lately—think cottage cheese and sun-dried tomatoes. What’s next on the list? We think honey mustard will be big in 2025. \n\nHoney mustard may just be the superior mustard—honestly, any condiment that combines sweet and savory flavors is bound to be a winner. We predict the world is going to appreciate this beautiful mustard/sauce/dip for what it is in 2025: a delicious meal enhancer you will never get tired of. It’s more than just a pairing for chicken tenders. Honey mustard can also be the deserving star in an all-purpose salad dressing or the base in a fan-favorite chicken salad. But of course, it’s also great served as a dip, whether it be with pea pods or Crispy Baked Turkey Nuggets.\n\n6. High-Protein Ingredients\n\nWhen you think of high-protein foods, things like red meat, chicken and protein shakes may come to mind. While those foods can be good sources of protein, we predict other protein-rich foods (especially plant-based ones) will stand out in the coming months. Greek yogurt, nuts, beans and cottage cheese have been at the top of peoples’ grocery lists and show no signs of slowing down.\n\n“Protein is really having a moment, and I think that’s because there’s a lot more awareness on how it can help promote satiety, muscle growth, healthy digestion and healthy aging,” says Jessica Ball, M.S., RD, registered dietitian and nutrition editor at EatingWell. “While most Americans meet their protein needs easily in their eating patterns, there has been growing interest in eating less meat, whether it’s for personal preference, health benefits or environmental concern. That’s why I think plant-based and vegetarian foods that are high in protein will be front-of-mind for people in 2025—we all saw what happened with cottage cheese!” \n\nCelebs like Tate McRae, Julianne Hough and Sha’Carri Richardson have told us that they swear by satisfying, protein-packed snacks like nuts, apples and peanut butter, and hard-boiled eggs. And alongside these stars, it seems like everyone is on board with this one, as Fresh Thyme Market, Kroger and Whole Foods predict that prioritizing protein will be a trend next year.\n\n7. Canned Foods\n\nWe’ve noticed an uptick in interest in pantry staples, specifically canned foods. Whether it’s due to higher food costs and their shelf-stable nature, canned fruits, vegetables and proteins can be a healthy, budget-friendly choice. Our readers want to know which canned foods can help them meet their weight-loss goals and improve their blood sugar levels, and which canned foods they may have overlooked at the store.\n\nThese easy ingredients are loved by our readers, including canned beans like black beans and chickpeas. We can’t blame them; recipes like our Black Bean Enchilada Skillet and Crispy Chickpeas over Whipped Feta make our mouths water, too.\n\n8. Cognitive Health\n\nAnother trend that will be top of mind for 2025 is a focus on cognitive health. Whether it be habits to decrease risk of cognitive decline or the best high-protein snack for brain health, our readers are studying up on what foods, exercises and lifestyle practices will help keep them sharp. And Fresh Thyme Market agrees with us again, as they note \"boosting brain power\" to be a predicted trend, too. Reducing risk of dementia and improving brain health is definitely a trend we can get behind.\n\n9. Over-the-Counter Weight-Loss Supplements\n\nWith the rise in popularity of GLP-1 medications for diabetes and weight management, we are seeing an increase in trends like “natural” GLP-1 alternatives, “nature’s Ozempic” and over-the-counter weight-loss supplements. Over-the-counter pills may sound like an intriguing quick fix for those looking to reach specific goals, but here’s what Ball wants you to know before buying supplements with weight-loss claims: \n\n“I’m generally skeptical about over-the-counter medications or ‘natural alternatives’ that claim to have the same effects as GLP-1 medication,” the dietitian says. “First off, compounding formulas and supplements are not regulated like FDA-approved prescription drugs, so it can be difficult to know what’s actually in them. In fact, the FDA and American Diabetes Association both recommend against using them for this reason. Not only can they be a safety concern, but they are also expensive and usually aren’t a sustainable solution for weight loss. As a dietitian and nutrition professional, I would never recommend them.”\n\n10. Calming Mocktails\n\nMore and more people are starting to show interest in a sober lifestyle and cut out alcohol from their diets, which is why we expect the rise of the mocktail. But not just any mocktails; mocktails that just taste like sparkling juice are OUT, and mocktails that actually make you *feel* something are IN. \n\nMore nonalcoholic beverages on the market are starting to be infused with calming ingredients like kava, magnesium and adaptogens, making them the perfect drink to end the day with. We’re loving brands like Recess and De Soi that are leading the charge with their innovative mocktail creations—they’re worth the try this Dry January. You can also make your own calming drink at home with our Tart Cherry Nighttime Mocktail recipe; the tart cherry juice provides a natural source of magnesium."}
