{"title":"Prices – Abolish Pest Control","author":null,"date":"2025-09-10T18:57:49+00:00","main_content":"Pest Control Rates in Brooklyn, Queens, and Staten Island\n\nContact us for more information about our pest control rates. We are happy to serve you in Brooklyn, NY, in addition to Staten Island and Queens.\n\nWe offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for 3 hours after the service. Chemicals used are bait gels, liquid pesticides, and growth regulators.\n***Click Here to Download Price Sheet***\n\n*Prices below may vary.*\n\nPest Control Price List: One Apartment One-Family Home Additional Units\nCockroach Treatments (German and American) $325 $375 $100\nWe offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are bait gels, liquid pesticides, and growth regulators. We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are bait gels, liquid pesticides, and growth regulators. We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are bait gels, liquid pesticides, and growth regulators. We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are bait gels, liquid pesticides, and growth regulators.\nCommon Ant Treatments $325 $375 $100\nWe offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are bait gels, liquid pesticides, and growth regulators. We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are bait gels, liquid pesticides, and growth regulators. We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are bait gels, liquid pesticides, and growth regulators. We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are bait gels, liquid pesticides, and growth regulators.\nMouse Treatments (House Mouse) $325 $375 $100\nWe offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are rodent baits, tracking powders, and traps, where the technician feels they are most effective. We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are rodent baits, tracking powders, and traps, where the technician feels they are most effective. We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are rodent baits, tracking powders, and traps, where the technician feels they are most effective. We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are rodent baits, tracking powders, and traps, where the technician feels they are most effective.\nRat Treatments (Norway Rats) $375 and Up\nWe offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are rodent baits, tracking powders, and traps, where the technician feels they are most effective. We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are rodent baits, tracking powders, and traps, where the technician feels they are most effective. We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are rodent baits, tracking powders, and traps, where the technician feels they are most effective. We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are rodent baits, tracking powders, and traps, where the technician feels they are most effective.\nBed Bug Treatments or Flea and Tick Treatment $650 (One Room) $750 (Two Rooms) $850 (Three Rooms, Etc.)\nWe offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are Suspend SC and Gentrol growth regulator, which the technician feels are most effective. Preparations: Because bed bugs are difficult to treat, it is important that you prepare your space for our technicians. In order for us to eradicate your infestation as quickly as possible, we ask that you perform the following prior to your bed bug treatment visit: • Remove All Clothing and Linens from Dressers, Drawers, and Mattresses • Place These Items in a Dryer on High Heat for 30 to 60 Minutes • Place These Items in a Plastic Bag and Tightly Tie Them to Ensure No Bed Bugs Can Re-Enter and Re-Infest These Items During Treatment • Pets Can Be Put in Bathrooms or Taken Out During Services We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are Suspend SC and Gentrol growth regulator, which the technician feels are most effective. Preparations: Because bed bugs are difficult to treat, it is important that you prepare your space for our technicians. In order for us to eradicate your infestation as quickly as possible, we ask that you perform the following prior to your bed bug treatment visit: • Remove All Clothing and Linens from Dressers, Drawers, and Mattresses • Place These Items in a Dryer on High Heat for 30 to 60 Minutes • Place These Items in a Plastic Bag and Tightly Tie Them to Ensure No Bed Bugs Can Re-Enter and Re-Infest These Items During Treatment • Pets Can Be Put in Bathrooms or Taken Out During Services We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are Suspend SC and Gentrol growth regulator, which the technician feels are most effective. Preparations: Because bed bugs are difficult to treat, it is important that you prepare your space for our technicians. In order for us to eradicate your infestation as quickly as possible, we ask that you perform the following prior to your bed bug treatment visit: • Remove All Clothing and Linens from Dressers, Drawers, and Mattresses • Place These Items in a Dryer on High Heat for 30 to 60 Minutes • Place These Items in a Plastic Bag and Tightly Tie Them to Ensure No Bed Bugs Can Re-Enter and Re-Infest These Items During Treatment • Pets Can Be Put in Bathrooms or Taken Out During Services We offer a 60-day guarantee and will return if any live evidence is reported after 10 days of initial service. Leave the apartment for three hours after the service. Chemicals used are Suspend SC and Gentrol growth regulator, which the technician feels are most effective. Preparations: Because bed bugs are difficult to treat, it is important that you prepare your space for our technicians. In order for us to eradicate your infestation as quickly as possible, we ask that you perform the following prior to your bed bug treatment visit: • Remove All Clothing and Linens from Dressers, Drawers, and Mattresses • Place These Items in a Dryer on High Heat for 30 to 60 Minutes • Place These Items in a Plastic Bag and Tightly Tie Them to Ensure No Bed Bugs Can Re-Enter and Re-Infest These Items During Treatment • Pets Can Be Put in Bathrooms or Taken Out During Services\nBee Treatments (Wasps, Bees, Hornets, Etc.) $325 (Under 12 Feet) $375 (12–24 Feet)\nThe customer must be able to identify where bees are nesting or where the hive is located before booking the service. Also, the treatment is only performed at dusk, so most, if not all, bees or wasps are in the nest. The customer must be able to identify where bees are nesting or where the hive is located before booking the service. Also, the treatment is only performed at dusk, so most, if not all, bees or wasps are in the nest. The customer must be able to identify where bees are nesting or where the hive is located before booking the service. Also, the treatment is only performed at dusk, so most, if not all, bees or wasps are in the nest. The customer must be able to identify where bees are nesting or where the hive is located before booking the service. Also, the treatment is only performed at dusk, so most, if not all, bees or wasps are in the nest.\nTermite Treatments (Subterranean Termites) Starting at $1,800\nChemical application via drilling and pumping the termite solution into the soil that surrounds the structure. (Average Structure: 2-Year Guarantee) Chemical application via drilling and pumping the termite solution into the soil that surrounds the structure. (Average Structure: 2-Year Guarantee) Chemical application via drilling and pumping the termite solution into the soil that surrounds the structure. (Average Structure: 2-Year Guarantee) Chemical application via drilling and pumping the termite solution into the soil that surrounds the structure. (Average Structure: 2-Year Guarantee)\n\nClick Here for Prices and Plans"}
