{"title":"80 Lesser-Known Decorating Secrets From Designers That Will Transform Any Space","author":"Meghan Shouse","date":"2025-12-16T18:31:00+00:00","main_content":"Whether you're settling into your first apartment or have owned your home for years, there’s something deeply satisfying about making a space feel like your own. From choosing the ideal paint color for your bedroom to debating blinds vs. shades for the living room—and finally splurging on that perfect sofa—personalizing your home is a journey filled with numerous decisions. But the most impactful changes are those little-known decorating secrets that finally reveal a room's true potential.Fortunately, many interior experts have opened up about their favorite tips—offering clever, budget-friendly decorating secrets that anyone can use. Whether you're working with limited square footage or trying to reimagine an awkward layout, these designer-backed ideas can help you maximize every inch and express your style with confidence.Read on for 80 expert-approved decorating secrets and interior design ideas to help you transform your space, regardless of your home’s size or your budget.Additional copy by Kate McGregor and Melanie Yates.For even more interior design ideas: 99 STUNNING Kitchen Design Ideas for Every Style and BudgetThese Home Improvement Projects Are Tax-Deductible7 Paint Colors That Boost Your Home’s Real Estate Value  Marry Old and New “When our clients hired us, they had a lot of inherited furniture from their family they wanted to incorporate,” interior designer Maggie Clarke says. The dining tables and side chairs were her client’s grandmother’s, which the designer had refinished to minimize the red tones in the woodgrain. “I love incorporating meaningful pieces into designs,” she says. ”It gives the space soul.”Tour the Entire Home Connect Through Lighting Designer Tamara Honey connected the open-concept kitchen to its surrounding areas through lighting. “The lights serve a purpose as both working taskers while adding to the architectural and artistic ambience within the space,” says the designer.Tour the Entire Home Be Mindful With Storage “I wanted the kitchen to feel incorporated into that space but without sticking out like a typical kitchen,” designer Adam Ben Wagner says. “I conceived of the cabinetry as full-height bookshelves and storage, reading more like an intimate library space.” A cohesive wood stain across the open-concept floor plan ensures a seamless transition from one space to the next.Tour the Entire Home Think of Everyone Don’t dismiss your guest spaces as you’re remodeling your home. Designer Amber Lewis put this beautiful soaker tub in the guest bathroom that pulls in blues from the bedroom, making visitors feel like they’re staying at a boutique hotel. “This girl does not cut a corner for a single human,” Lewis says of her generous interior design client. “Everybody gets the full experience.”Tour the Entire Home Create Unique Touches This speakeasy is hidden behind a bookcase door in the living room, creating a little secret spot for the homeowners to play around with. Amber Lewis chose wave-inspired wainscoting and a custom nautical mural by de Gournay to pay homage to the home’s shoreline location.Tour the Entire Home Play to the Room Size In this small breakfast nook area, Amber Lewis opted for a corner banquette to allow people to easily “scoot around” the table. Otherwise, they’d have to awkwardly push chairs in and out to get around the narrow kitchen.Tour the Entire Home Look to Your Own Quirks Designer Breegan Jane put this beautiful Moroccan fountain in a guest bathroom to provide “auditory privacy.” The designer says she was inspired by her own “insecurities” when using other peoples’ bathrooms, so she put this in to make it more comfortable for guests.Tour the Entire Home Design for How You Really Live Breegan Jane doesn't cook, but she loves to entertain; therefore, she turned her kitchen into a party-ready gathering spot. She added specialty features like disco balls and easy-to-clean, low-maintenance surfaces rather than the best appliances.Tour the Entire Home Know Your Environment When purchasing a home by the water, it’s essential to prepare for storm seasons. Designer Janie Molster collaborated with her clients, who bought a house on Captiva Island, Florida, to ensure the property could withstand the elements. She incorporated protective features such as storm shutters and high-impact windows, blending durability with thoughtful design to safeguard the home against nature’s challenges.Tour the Entire Home Lean Into the Room’s Proportions Designer Janie Molster decided to play into this breakfast room’s extra-tall height. She fell in love with the “dramatic scale” of the draperies, opting for a blue patterned fabric from Etamine.Tour the Entire Home Remember That Kids Grow Up When designing this grandkids’ room, Janie Molster put in two extra-long twin beds to accommodate the kids are they grow into adulthood. “Twin bedrooms are always fun to design. The symmetry is so pleasing to the eye,” Molster says.Tour the Entire Home Expect Messes to Happen “We wanted to create a house that could bend the rules about eating and drinking,” Janie Molster says, so she used performance fabrics to upholster the sofas in this living space. As long as they’re cleaned right, they should look as good as new years from now.Tour the Entire Home Find Ways to Add Dimension When your small space, like a powder room, doesn’t allow much room for visual dimension, find creative ways to add it in. In this room, designer Kelly Hurliman chose to arch the ceiling to add depth to the space.Tour the Entire Home Make It Inviting A home gym is still a gym, and if the space is cold, dingy, and blah, no amount of convenience will get you to use it. However, designer Tanya Ryno has a fix for that: “If it’s more inviting, you’ll use it.” She and her husband, Jim, of Iron House Design, created this beautiful and serene home gym for our 2024 Whole Home, using calming hues, plenty of fresh air, and luxe finishes to do so.TOUR THE ENTIRE SPACERelated Story: 25 Home Gym Ideas That Are Big On Style Ensure There’s Enough Seating If your family is an entertaining bunch, then you need to make sure that your home can comfortably accommodate the number of guests you’d like to bring in. A good rule of thumb, and a way to make sure you don’t over-invite, is matching your living room and dining room seating options, according to designer Dane Austin. “Your living room should be able to seat as many people as you have dining room chairs,” he says.TOUR THE ENTIRE SPACERelated Story: Top 12 Dining Room Trends Designers Are Expecting to Take Over in 2025 Look to the Past While large amounts of natural light are on most people’s home wishlists, sometimes large windows can make you feel a bit exposed. Designer Anne McDonald suggests one particular design trend of the past to counter this vulnerable feeling. She transformed part of the large, open reading room into an English snug: “They’re sweet little rooms that are intimate and cozy.”TOUR THE ENTIRE SPACERelated Story: 40 Reading Nook Ideas That Don't Sacrifice Coziness for Style Find Your Grounding Elements If your home is filled with patterns, an interior design secret from Colleen Simonds is all about using certain pieces as grounding elements to take a bit away from the busy prints. “The color and glaze on the lamps help balance the tones in the wallpaper,” she explains of this dining room. “The rug was a late—but wonderful—find. The brown is nice and grounding and all the colorful squares bring life and cheerful color to the room. Chic, not serious, and unique. My favorite combination!”TOUR THE ENTIRE HOMERelated Story: Custom Murals and 7 Other Wallpaper Trends That Will Be Everywhere in 2025 Veer Away From Tradition This Texas house didn’t come with a kitchen island, so the team at Fort Design Studio sourced a portable wooden island from Chairish to use instead. Not only does this give the kitchen a wholly unique look, but it warms up the space. It’s okay—even encouraged—to think outside the box when it comes to decorating your home.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Work Around Your Life In the same Texas home as above, the Fort Design Studio team installed a pullout Rev-A-Shelf spice drawer to the right of the stunning range. Hilary Colia, one of the designers who worked on this project, explains that this “blew [the] client’s mind—she had been storing all her spices in the pantry and walking back and forth when needed.” There are tools out there designed to make your life easier, depending on your lifestyle—if you find them, take advantage of them.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Tweak the Layout “Just by rearranging the space, it feels double its original size,” architect J.E. Schram explains of his remodeled home kitchen. The architect actually took up more space in the remodel, adding about 50 percent more countertop area and 60 percent more cabinet space. However, by simply moving the fridge and the range and hiding away smaller appliances to reduce clutter, Schram made the kitchen feel so much larger.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Downsizing Might Be Better Though the phrase is “bigger is better,” designer Jaqui Seerman proves that isn’t always the case. While some aspects of this Beverly Hills home became a bit oversized—like the primary baths—other aspects, like this breakfast nook, got the opposite treatment for the better. “We downsized this breakfast nook from seating for 10 to six, and now it’s one of the most frequented corners of the house,” Seerman says.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOMERelated Story: 34 Banquette Ideas to Make Every Room More Comfortable Blend In Rich Tones When decorating in a mainly neutral color palette, making sure the space doesn’t feel one-dimensional is key. This interior design secret involves adding rich hues and textures as accents throughout. Lindye Galloway, the designer of this bedroom, explains, “To achieve a sense of tranquility and comfort, we kept a neutral palette and added a few rich tones in accents and blended textures to add some subtle interest.”TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Tell a Story Get creative in the way you tell your family’s story through your interior design. In this NYC home, Christie Ward of design firm Ward + Gray says, “While we were working on the project, the couple got engaged in Rome, so we wanted to find a way to make a subtle nod to that story. We designed this marble patterned floor tile that was inspired by a floor we once saw in a Roman church.”TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Combine Textures and Layering “When things are really tonal, texture and layering are a must,” designer Michael Ellison says of this Nantucket home. He used plenty of natural stone, distressed leather, rattan accents, jute rugs, and faux-vellum walls to create this intimate gathering space for his clients, relying on the different textures to provide depth and interest to the entire home.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Combine Traditional and Modern In this Los Angeles home, designer Jeremiah Brent explains, “The goal was to find the balance between the pedigree of traditional design and the playfulness of modern design.” By doing so, he created a spacious and beautiful retreat that encourages conversation and connection for a family that loves to entertain.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Don’t Knock a Fixer-Upper This once-dilapidated floating house didn’t look like it had much going for it when Donna and Eric Colson purchased it. “It was red-tagged, completely dilapidated,” Colleen Dowd Saglimbeni, founder of CDS Interiors, says. However, Dowd Saglimbeni was able to completely transform the structure thanks to its good bones and small but open layout, using the panoramic views of the bay as her jumping-off point in designing the ultimate entertainment space.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Use the Ceilings for Balance In this small maximalist’s home, designer Nick Olsen needed to capture his client’s more-is-more aesthetic without making the space feel too crowded, so he decided to paint the ceilings white. “With all this boldness, you need relief,” Olsen says. He also added a range of earthy elements, like jute and bamboo, to further encourage the balance.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Bring In Local Elements “We intentionally avoided competing with the picturesque marsh views and wove their tones into various spaces instead,” Cortney Bishop says of this Charleston, South Carolina, home. Her interior design secret involves looking to the outside elements, like taking inspiration from the live oaks along the water for the white oak flooring and cabinetry in the kitchen. She wanted to provide harmony in the entire property, creating “an immersive depth that seamlessly blends with the surrounding environment and the old trees,” as she puts it.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Lighten Up a Room With Woven Cane In this elegant mudroom designed by Ashley Montgomery, the caned cabinet fronts serve practical and decorative purposes. They \"provide airflow\" to cabinets that hold farm clothes, boots, hats, and gloves, and their natural color breaks up the green woodwork. Such high-traffic areas can feel cluttered, but thoughtful details like caning can help calm the chaos.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Combine Strong Colors and Prints While the concept might seem to clash, this bedroom designed by Leah Ring of Another Human includes rich colors and prints from patchwork textiles to ceramic items and paint, so it's only fitting that the artwork is multidimensional and unique too. \"The bedroom gets great light throughout the day, so we wanted to go for a peachy color on the walls that would give it a nice glow with the sunlight,\" Ring explains. The bedroom \"feels layered in a comfortable way but not too busy—[you] feel very serene when you’re in the room,\" Ring says.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Add Charm With a Cabinet Skirt Meta Coleman was inspired by tile and color to give a California kitchen a refresh. She borrowed square footage from the living room to build this bright walk-in pantry. It's complete with plenty of storage, tons of countertop space, and adorable cabinet skirts that soften the room.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Match Blue With Any Other Color The interior design lesson here is that there are no downsides to practically any shade of blue. Designed by Kingston Lafferty, the artwork above the fireplace sets the tone for the bold color-blocking happening throughout the space, including the light green ceiling, the tonal walls and mantel, the Sputnik light, and the patterned chairs and drapes. Lean on Timeless Tile Avery Cox of Avery Cox Design, who loves a classic subway tile, can be found using mosaics and penny tiles as well. \"If I'm really going for something special I'll select a hand-painted or marbled tile from somewhere like Balineum,\" she explains. Bonus tip: Customizations are having a moment in the tile industry, whether it's in your bathroom, kitchen, or bedroom! Cut Tile for a Custom Look \"We typically cut readily available materials that are in standard sizes into smaller sizes of those same tiles,\" Jessica Geller of Toldeo Geller says for the 2021 Whole Home. The design duo used the budget-friendly method to create the custom tile design in this bathroom.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Update an Appliance With Wallpaper Have ugly appliances or simply want to change things up? Cover them up with peel-and-stick wallpaper, as designer Janie Molster did to the fridge and freezer in this kitchen. It makes the room feel more quirky and fun.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Balance Playful and Sophisticated You can mix colors and patterns that'll push the envelope but still remain stylish and authentic in your interior design. Just take it from designer Anthony Gianacakos, who did so in his own bedroom. \"My strong suit is color and pattern combination,\" he says.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME No Window? Use a Mirror In a basement room with no windows, Camila Pavone of Effortless Style Interiors came up with the idea to combine two mirrors to fake a window. It brightens up the space and makes it feel bigger.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Soften Up Stainless Steel Stainless steel can feel so harsh, but if you still want the material present in your home, there are ways to make it feel softer. \"We love how this finish surface interacts with light; it is soft, subtle, and welcoming,\" says Suzanne Stefan of the stainless steel matte finish in her kitchen, which she created using a Scotch-Brite sponge.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Use Your Collections \"I wanted to fashion a space where you could have a friend over for coffee or tea…and actually use your collected china,\" says Marie Flanigan of this tea room she designed for the 2020 Whole Home. Her interior design secret is that any collection can be a jumping-off point for a room. TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Hide a Radiator With a Cabinet A radiator can easily throw off your design vision. Make it a part of the room by building a cabinet over it, as Leanne Ford Interiors did here to reclaim the hallway space and turn it into a beautiful little reading nook. Create a Personal Oasis Don't underestimate the importance of a personal sanctuary. \"I wanted it to feel like being wrapped in a warm blanket,\" says Melissa Rufty of this Southern library. She added plush fabrics and rich colors to feel enveloped in the room every time it was entered. TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Try Lacquer Wallpaper Skip out on the real stuff. \"If someone draws on it, it's a lot easier to repair than real lacquer!\" says designer Corey Damen Jenkins. It's much more child-friendly too.  Make Your Own Art \"Purchase a few matted frames and pop in your own sketches of abstract art. The picture mats will look expensive, and you'll have your own personal touch on the walls for guests to admire,\" says interior designer Eneia White. Use Multifunctional Furniture Outdoors \"Small, outdoor ceramic stools are great pieces of furniture that perform double duty,\" says interior designer David Quarles IV. \"They can be used as extra seating or when placed close to a chair or sofa, they can serve as an additional surface to place your laptop during work hours or cocktails and small plates of food during an outdoor hangout.\" Transform an Eyesore With Paint \"In this basement remodel, we would've had to spend a ton of money rerouting the HCVA air duct. Who wouldn't go with ballet slipper pink instead?\" asks designer Max Humphrey. When you really look into it, there are a lot of interesting features you can transform with paint that you may not have thought of before. Create Your Own Character \"There was no ceiling molding and no molding around the doors in this apartment, so I added them with paint,\" explains Aldous Bertram. In his entire apartment, the designer added his own creative spin on things without too much commitment. When the time came to move out, he could easily paint back over everything. TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Shop Your Home First It's easy to want to purchase all new things for your new house, but both the earth and your wallet won't like that level of consumerism. Interior designer Jean Liu says of this empty nesters' new home in Dallas, \"We were able to work in a lot of pieces from their previous home, which made it feel layered.\"TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Fake It 'Til You Make It \"Do something groovy on the actual steps! The bolder you go, the bigger the smile when you see them,\" says Fawn Galli. This interior design secret involves a painted runner by Annie Sloan that looks just like a carpet.  Liven Up a Room With a Mural \"Murals are a way of bringing more people into the house, so even when it's just the two owners, it never feels lonely,\" explains designer Raji Radhakrishnan. \"At nighttime, when the chandeliers are lit, it feels like it’s literally coming to life!\" They're an excellent way to take up a lot of wall space and create something unique in the house.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Mix Old and New Decor \"Old and new belong together. A mix of modern pieces and antiques never tires,\" says Caleb Anderson. Whether the pieces are passed down or thrifted, there's something about a vintage decoration that adds character to a room.  Update the Lighting Improve health and temporarily turn a room a different  color with \"top-of-the-line smart circadian rhythm lighting,\" as Breegan Jane puts it. Wallpaper Ordinary Spaces \"I love to use wallpaper in mundane spaces. Hallways, pantries, powder rooms—all become moments of joy and funkiness. Areas of transition can be places you enjoy spending time in,\" Fawn Galli says. Don't Be Afraid to DIY \"If punk rock has taught me anything, it's to do everything yourself. All of my favorite interior designers were self-taught,\" Max Humphrey says. Even if you're not a DIY master, taking the time to learn something new is so rewarding.  Buy the Right Light Bulbs \"Choosing the right light bulb is very important. LED bulbs are energy efficient, and they can look great,\" Paloma Contreras adds. However, you don't want one that projects too warm or too cool of light into your space. It's important to do your research when looking for the right type of light.  Add Personality With Wicker Designer Amy Berry says, \"Wicker is an element I love for its texture and versatility. Wicker baskets are so functional for storage, but a wicker animal brings a sense of whimsy.\"  Elevate the Light Switches \"Update your light switches! Elegant controls add a spectacular element to an older home or character to a new one,\" Courtney Hill suggests. They're easily dismissed, but that doesn't mean they should be.  Invest in Antiques \"Great art and fabulous antiques only get better with age. It's better to cry once and have a forever piece,\" designer Chandos Dodson Epley says. Plus, depending on what you buy, you can always sell it in the future at a profit.  Even Rentals Can Get an Upgrade  \"These doors were uninspiring and ugly,\" says designer Keita Turner. However, her interior design secret involved making this creative DIY upgrade to add a bit more interest to the closet doors while keeping them renter-friendly. See how she hacked a custom upholstery job here.  Trust Your Intuition \"Follow your gut. If you have to talk yourself into liking something, you probably don't,\" Olivia Erwin explains. Great advice to follow inside and outside of interior design! Start From the Top Julio Salcedo says, \"Look up! We use ceilings a lot. Through them, we define the lines and beauty of a space.\" The fifth wall is more important than you may think. We're loving the tented ceiling look right now.  Add a Bar \"Every house should have a great bar. It is the central point of a party, and if you entertain a lot, it will be celebrated, so put some thought into it,\" designer Jordana Joseph adds. And if you can't put in a whole bar, consider a bar cart.  When in Doubt, Paint It \"Never underestimate the power of paint,\" Chauncey Boothby says. \"You don't have to break the bank to achieve a new look. A fresh coat in a vibrant color takes an old piece of furniture or empty white room and gives it new life.\" Draw On the Walls Can you believe this rental kitchen makeover was done with just paint and tape? That's one heck of an interior design secret. Designer Anthony Gianacakos seriously upgraded his kitchen to look more playful with this creative design. \"I could really transform the space with paint—it doesn't have to be wallpaper,\" he says.  Embrace a Classic White Kitchen \"Classics never go out of style,\" Alexandra Kaehler says. \"I hesitated about doing a white kitchen in my own house, thinking I'd been there, done that. But I'm so glad I did. I will never tire of it.\"  Use Your Things \"Actually use your beautiful things! I have a chocolate lab and white furniture in my living room. It took some training, but now he knows the furniture is off-limits,\" designer Lindsey Lane explains. Don't Be Afraid of Dark Colors \"I used this rich Benjamin Moore Midnight Blue on an accent wall—darker than I'd ever dared. It made the whole space come to life,\" designer Jean Larette says. Moody paint colors can sometimes be difficult to work with, but the end product is so gorgeous.  Fill It With Styled Clutter  Take Marie Kondo with a grain of salt. \"I think it's true what she says, but all this stuff brings me joy. Ever since I was little, I liked to collect things, even unimportant things,\" says Mary McDonald. And she's not the only one: Other designers think you should embrace stuff, too.TOUR THE ENTIRE HOME Splurge on the Primary Bath \"The splurge everyone should make is a fabulous primary bathroom,\" designer Todd Richesin says of his favorite interior design secret. \"I used hand-painted porcelain sinks in mine.\" Don't Underestimate the Coffee Table \"In an open seating plan, always use a well-proportioned statement coffee table to ground the arrangement and give it a sense of place,\" designer Sean Michael says. Make Ceilings Look Higher With Tall Furniture \"Use tall pieces in a low-height room. Short furnishings would make the ceiling feel that much lower to the ground,\" Jason Oliver Nixon explains. Think Asymmetrical \"Get creative when thinking about form and function,\" interior designer Kate Coughlin says. \"A client in a traditional Georgian home needed it to work for her modern way of entertaining. We opted for an asymmetrical, organic space that encourages guests to float through the room while engaged in conversation.\" Figure Out the Floor Plan It's quite simple to hear, but easy to skip over when you start finding furniture you simply love the look of: \"The most important first step in design is a good floor plan,\" says Jessica Helgerson. After that, the rest comes fairly easily. Invest in Upholstery \"My clients ask about the most important pieces to invest in: I believe in upholstery and art! They help anchor a room,\" designer Ashley Darryl explains. Sometimes, it really is the smaller things that complete the big picture. Have Fun \"Make sure you're having fun. What's more fun than making your own home more beautiful?\" designer Eche Martinez ponders. And if you're feeling a bit burnt out on where to find fun home inspiration, we asked a few designers where they go to feel creative outside the internet—check it out.  Create Your Own Light \"When you're given a dark space that doesn't have great light, create your own light. In this kitchen, we used Sherwin-Williams's sunny Ener­getic Orange, and it turned out just fabulous—so cheerful,\" Matthew Boland says. However, it's important to note that this paint color is now archived. Don't worry though—we know of some other orange paints you're sure to love.  Know Your Dealbreakers \"Don't settle,\" Brian Watford says. \"If you have your heart set on a piece, don't try to find something similar just to save money. Chances are, you'll never be completely satisfied with the substitute (or its quality).\" Swap Out Big Pieces to Get a New Look \"When clients want a quick, impactful update, I recommend the pieces that take up the most surface area, like rugs, paint color, or window treatments,\" Tina Ramchandani says of her favorite interior design secret. Make One Good Investment a Year \"Buy one good piece of furniture every year, and in five years, you'll have five pieces,\" Jeffrey Bilhuber says. \"Everything else may change, but these will remain constant.\" Decorate Bedrooms to Reflect Your Personality \"In the primary suite, decor can deviate from the common areas and really reflect your personality,\" Ali Vanderpool says. Especially if you're living with other people, take advantage of the freedom you have with this room. Don't Forget the Ceiling \"Faux paint, lush lacquer, or wallpaper on a ceiling will garner that 'Wow' response,\" Leslie May says. Don't wait to hop on this decor trend—ceilings are hot right now."}
