{"title":"Ten Tips For Succeeding in Classes Online - Academic Coaching and Tutoring at the Center for Academic Success","author":null,"date":"2020-03-26T11:02:24+00:00","main_content":"About Online Courses at UD\n\nDuring your time as a Blue Hen, you may be presented with the opportunity to enroll in online or hybrid classes.\n\nSynchronous classes are facilitated online, but you still meet “live” with your instructor and classmates during the designated times in your class schedule. Asynchronous classes are facilitated online without a scheduled meeting time with your instructor and classmates. Asynchronous learning allows you to engage with the course materials during times that are most convenient for your schedule.\n\nIn Courses Search, online courses are designated as “ONLINE” in the location details. Synchronous online courses will display the days and times the class will meet; asynchronous classes are designated as “ASYN” in the day details. In WebReg, you will see “ONLINE” in the schedule field if the course is online. Those that are synchronous will have specific days and times listed as well. Those that are asynchronous will state “ASYN ONLINE.” Once registered, synchronous courses will appear in the calendar view. Asynchronous courses will only appear in the list of courses and not on the calendar view.\n\nTake Charge of Your Remote Learning\n\nReview your syllabi in Canvas to be sure that you understand course expectations. Collect any required textbooks or supplies, and learn how you can connect with support when you need it.\n\nUsing your syllabi, create a schedule for your time. Mark when when your synchronous classes will meet and block out additional times when you will regularly work on assignments for both synchronous and asynchronous courses. As a general rule, you should try to allot 2 to 3 hours per credit per week of study time for your classes. That’s 6 to 9 hours per week for a 3-credit course or 8 to 12 hours per week for a 4-credit course! If you can, disperse your studies into smaller chunks of time. Be realistic, too, about other important commitments, including work, extracurricular activities and self care. Learn more in our Time Management workshop.\n\nFind one or more spaces where you feel most productive, and go there when it’s time to  focus on school. Try your best to treat online class time like in-person class time. Tune out distractions around you, including your phone, TV and extra browser tabs. This may also mean setting clear boundaries with family and friends!\n\nFind a way to turn your course content into something that belongs to you! Take notes, create a study guide or annotate your texts. Not only will you retain the information better, but you’ll thank yourself when it comes time to prepare for papers and exams.\n\nTaking an online course does not mean that you are going it alone. Check each syllabus to learn about regular ways to connect with your professors, like email and office hours. Don’t forget to engage with your peers, too, using online platforms like text, FaceTime, WhatsApp, GroupMe or Zoom.\n\nUse your study guides, notes or annotated texts to test yourself. Do this regularly, not just when it’s time to take an exam: you need to “own” the material, and that just doesn’t happen when you cram. See our Study Strategies workshop to learn more about what we call “distributed study”, an important alternative to cramming. You’ll also discover creative ideas for working with difficult material.\n\nSet reminders for deadlines in your Google Calendar, phone or paper agenda. Build in  extra time for assignments in case things don’t go according to plan. If taking a live exam, avoid extra stress by testing tech at least an hour in advance. If a technical problem does arise at the last minute, take a deep breath, take a screenshot and email your professor as soon as you can.\n\nHold yourself accountable to your goals for the semester and the schedule you set, including time for life outside of your classes.\n\nDo something regularly that brings you joy! If you can, prioritize activities that take you  away from screens and keep you safely connected with family and friends. And, of  course, it’s always good advice to eat healthy, exercise and get a good night’s sleep.\n\nRemember to take advantage of the support services available to you at UD, especially if you find yourself struggling. A great place to begin is Academic Coaching & Tutoring (ACT). We offer on-demand skill-building workshops, personalized academic coaching, tutoring services and more! Visit the “Key Resources” section below to browse some of the many other offices dedicated to your academic success. \n\nConnect With Key Campus Resources\n\nACT tutoring: for individual, drop-in/PASS and group tutoring.\n\nACT academic support: for online study skills workshops and individualized coaching.\n\nAdvising Central: for additional UD resources designed to help you succeed, including your academic advisor.\n\nTech at UD and UD Online Orientation: for support with IT.\n\nExplore Information Beyond UD\n\nLearn Remotely: University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill’s Learning Center offers advice to help students get the most out of learning online.\n\nHow to Succeed in Online College Classes:  Advice for planning for success in an online environment."}
