{"title":"The 10 Best Electricians in Milwaukee, WI (with Free Quotes)","author":null,"date":null,"main_content":"Find electricians in Milwaukee, WI Confirm your location to see the best electricians near you. Zip code  Find electricians in Milwaukee, WI Confirm your location to see the best electricians near you. Zip code  Homeowners agree: these Milwaukee electricians are highly rated for knowledge, experience, communication, and more. Anyx Heating & Cooling LLC  8+ years in business Serves Milwaukee, WI Anyx Heating & Cooling takes pride in our craftsmanship, expertise, and communication. Operation of your home comfort system is our number one priority and to educate you about your system will be apart of our services. Bergmann Heating & Air Conditioning, Llc 5.0Exceptional(5) 7 hires on HomeGuide 13+ years in business Serves Milwaukee, WI Terry L P. says, \"Good communication , worked with me during the moving out and moving in \" Read more Walkowiak Electric Inc 29+ years in business Serves Milwaukee, WI Founded in 1996, Walkowiak Electric Inc serves Milwaukee, WI, and surrounding areas with its vast array of electrical services. Catering to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, they offer everything from emergency repairs and fixture replacements to generator installations and service upgrades. Their skilled team of Master Electricians, Journeymen, and Apprentices handle new construction, remodeling projects, and code corrections. Committed to excellence, Walkowiak Electric Inc prioritizes customer service, honesty, and integrity, ensuring your electrical systems are safe and efficient. Best Handyman Services, LLC 39+ years in business Serves Milwaukee, WI Founded in 1986, Best Handyman Services, LLC serves Wauwatosa, WI and surrounding areas with a commitment to understanding and catering to the unique needs of each customer. Sheldon Gasek, with over 20 years of experience, leads the company with a mission of timely service delivery at the best possible price. Whether you have a simple task or a complex project, Best Handyman Services is equipped to deliver tailored solutions. CJM Lighting And Electrical, Inc. 13+ years in business Serves Milwaukee, WI Founded in 2012, CJM Lighting and Electrical, Inc. is a trusted commercial lighting contractor in Lannon, Wisconsin and the surrounding areas. Specializing in industrial and commercial lighting systems, they offer energy-efficient solutions designed to save you money on your power bill. With fully licensed and insured contractors, they provide fast, efficient service with great attention to detail. CJM Lighting and Electrical also assist in leveraging incentives and rebates from energy providers, ensuring that your investment in energy-efficient lighting pays for itself in less than 24 months. 360 Degree Maintenance 17+ years in business Serves Milwaukee, WI 360 Degree Maintenance, founded in 2008, is a family company based in Franklin, WI, serving the surrounding areas. It's the leading commercial and residential maintenance, remodeling, and handyman service provider in SE Wisconsin. They are committed to 100% customer satisfaction, maintaining a clean work environment, and listening to your ideas and visions. Equipped to handle both small repairs and large remodels, their highly trained technicians specialize in various areas of facility maintenance and construction, including plumbing, electrical services, painting, and much more. KWK Electric Inc Serves Milwaukee, WI KWK Electric Inc, a family-owned and operated electrical contractor, proudly serves Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and its surrounding areas. Specializing in residential and commercial properties, they offer electrical services such as installation and repair of old switches, knob and tube wiring, and floor outlets. They even have experience lighting up Whitnall Park with their work. KWK Electric is also known for community involvement, notably supporting Habitat for Humanity. They're not just an electrical company; they're a dedicated member of your community. Cabinet Home  Serves Milwaukee, WI Cabinet Home, located in West Allis, Wisconsin, is a family-owned business that has been expertly servicing the Greater Milwaukee area for many years. They take pride in offering a wide variety of top-quality kitchen and bathroom cabinets. Their experienced installation team, renowned for their remarkable customer service, ensures timely delivery within two weeks. In addition to selling and installing cabinets, Cabinet Home also caters to all your electrical and lighting needs. Visit their showroom today for a custom kitchen cabinet design and free estimate. Brighter Connection 20+ years in business Serves Milwaukee, WI Established in 2005, Brighter Connection is a trusted name for high-quality electrical services in Milwaukee, WI, and surrounding areas. They are dedicated to meeting your needs, whether you require electrical services for a new construction, a remodel, or simple repairs. Brighter Connection has the expertise to handle all types of electrical tasks from code compliance and landscape lighting to solar panels. They also offer low voltage services including networking, security cameras, and fire alarms. They're more than just an electrical contractor - they're your partners in creating a safe, functional, and energy-efficient environment. Prime Electric Serves Milwaukee, WI Prime Electric, established in 2009, is a full-service electrical contractor serving Milwaukee, Wisconsin and surrounding areas. Led by a master electrician with over 20 years of experience, the company offers a wide range of residential and commercial electrical services. These include repairs, service upgrades, indoor and outdoor lighting installations, branch circuit troubleshooting, and full home remodels. Focused on providing a personalized and stress-free experience, Prime Electric is ready to answer any questions customers might have about the scope of their projects. Your electricians questions, answered Answers to commonly asked questions from the experts on HomeGuide. What does a residential electrician do? A qualified electrician can fix any electrical issues, install new electrical components and wiring, and ensure the electrical systems are safe for homeowners. \n Call an electrician near you today for: \n \n Installing a light fixture or chandelier \n Installing a ceiling fan, exhaust fan, or bathroom ventilation \n Adding or replacing an electrical outlet or socket \n Updating or replacing a circuit breaker box \n Fixing flickering lights or loose electrical wires \n Fixing electrical appliances \n Installing new wiring or cables \n Installing doorbells, smoke detectors, and security systems \n Installing or repairing pool heaters, hot tubs, and generators \n Installing or updating an outdoor electrical panel \n Adding outdoor lighting \n Solve any electrical emergencies \n \n If you are unsure of the problem, schedule an electrical inspection. \n How much does a licensed electrician cost in my area? Electricians cost  $40 to $100 per hour  with an average  $75 minimum  call-out fee. Emergency electricians charge  $150+ per hour  for 24-hour service on weekends, holidays, and evenings. Most electrical projects cost  $150 to $400 , depending on the job complexity, location, travel fees, and skill level of the electrician. \n View our electrical work pricing guide for a complete list of projects and estimated costs. \n Do electricians offer free estimates? Yes, electricians do offer free estimates. Whether you need new electrical work or repairs, most reasonable electricians offer a free quote. To get an accurate and free estimate, research and contact professional electricians near you and share details about your electrical needs. How do I find a nearby electrician to hire? Start by searching online to find licensed electricians in your area. After researching and finding potential candidates: \n \n Compare at least three free estimates from reputable electricians. \n Select electrical companies that are licensed, bonded, and experienced. \n Verify their insurance, worker’s compensation, and bond guarantees. \n Look at their reviews on HomeGuide and Google. \n Ask about their warranties and guarantees. \n Ask for a written contract, warranty, and detailed estimate. \n Be cautious of cheap electricians as quality may suffer. \n \n After asking questions and verifying their credentials, hire the most qualified and affordable electrician near you. \n What questions should I ask a local electrician? The best residential electrical contractors are licensed, bonded, insured, and provide free estimates. \n When looking for the best electrician, ask the following questions: \n \n Are you licensed? \n How long have you been in business? \n Is your electrical work insured or bonded? \n How much will my project cost? Can I get a written estimate? \n Do you offer a warranty or guarantee? \n Will you be performing the work or someone else? \n What permits do I need, and will you pull them? \n \n Can I do electrical work myself? Doing your own electrical work without a license is not recommended. Even small, simple electrical problems can be dangerous and lead to harming yourself or your home. Licensed electricians have specialized training to perform work safely without damaging your home. Reviews for Milwaukee electricians Recent success stories from people in the Milwaukee area. Darlene W. I was surprised that he came over the same day that I contacted him. Would definitely hire him again.   Bergmann Heating & Air Conditioning, Llc How HomeGuide works Search Search, get cost estimates, contact pros, and book—all for free. Compare View profiles, read reviews, check qualifications, and see prices before hiring. Hire Ask questions, confirm their availability, and hire the right pro when you're ready."}
