{"title":"Client Reviews | Plan Your Perfect Event Today — All Events Planned","author":null,"date":null,"main_content":"CLIENT REVIEWS\n\nFrom the first phone call I had with Brandi I felt instantly connected. She truly goes above and beyond to make the day all you could dream of and keeps her focus on YOUR wishes (ignores the noise and many distractions when planning a wedding). She was my sounding board while rescheduling due to COVID; she provided support and reassurance. I appreciated her attention to detail, she truly thought of everything! She created and shared a timeline for our day which was crucial to ensure we had a good plan set. Day of wedding she made sure everything was set up perfectly which allowed me to remain worry free while taking photos! She kept things running smoothly at the reception and was there anytime I needed a thing - from signing the marriage certificate to putting away jewelry for safe keeping. I highly recommend All Events Planned! Brandi we cannot thank you enough <3\n\nRachel F 5-29\n\nHiring Brandi was one of the best decisions we made for our wedding! She is so easy to talk to and work with. I didn't feel stressed at all the day of the wedding and she is such a huge reason why our wedding day was absolutely perfect! I cannot express enough how appreciative we are for Brandi and for her part in making our big day everything we imagined and more!\n\nKelsey S 9-17\n\nRachel went above and beyond with helping us plan our wedding. She was SO detailed and came up with ideas that I never would have thought of. She was so calming and positive throughout this whole process, and I would recommend her to every bride out there. All I can say is THANK YOU, because I have no words for how thankful I truly am for Rachel and All Events Planned.\n\nNicole G 9-17\n\nBrandi was my wedding planner and I could not imagine having worked with anyone else. This woman is amazing. Not only was the price reasonable, but her professionalism, organization and efficiency are top notch. My wedding day was perfect because Brandi handled every crisis without my even knowing there was a crisis and had everything that we had wanted executed perfectly. She coordinated with all the vendors to create a perfect timeline for the day and that allowed me to actually enjoy my wedding day instead of stressing about it.\n\nNori W 8-13\n\nWhere to even start? Brandi was AMAZING! She & her team went above and beyond to ensure that our Wedding Day was everything we dreamt of. Her attention to detail, her memory, and her tenacity to ensure that everything went exactly as planned, was everything that a bride could hope for in a Wedding Planner. I couldn’t imagine anyone else doing what she did, especially at a Lebanese wedding with so many moving parts! I can’t thank Her enough for making our day PERFECT! I would recommend All Events Planned to any Bride who wants her day to be flawless & perfect!\n\nZeina C 7-9\n\nIf you're looking for help planning your wedding, look no farther than All Events Planned! Brandi and her team made our day run so smooth and as a type-A bride, I was able to actually enjoy my wedding because I knew she was on top of all the details!\n\nTara K 6-11\n\nBrandi was incredible to work with! So pleasant and detailed. She created and distributed the master timeline of the day and that took so much stress off of me and my parents. She communicated every step of the way on that day and made sure everything ran smoothly. I honestly don't know what we would have done if we didn't have her!! Highly recommend, worth every $$ plus!!\n\nMelissa D 6-3\n\nFrom beginning to end Brandi helped to make our daughters wedding perfect! She has so much expertise and knowledge that helped keep the wedding running smoothly. From phone calls, to creating timelines, dealing with vendors, calming our nerves and picking up pizza, Brandi is all of this! She offered to help out in any way she could! So much more than an event planner! I highly recommend Brandi. Just can’t say enough!!\n\nNancy D (Mother of Bride) 6-3\n\nI was married Memorial Day weekend of 2021 in my sisters backyard. As an Event Planner myself, I felt that the right Wedding Planner was essential to make our day a success. Ultimately, that’s what I found in Brandi. After my first conversation with her, I knew she would be a great match. She took the time for me when I needed it, no matter how big or small a problem. She offered cost-effective solutions, guidance, best/worst case scenarios, vendor options and so much more. I felt completely confident and prepared having her there on the best day of my life. That being said, I would highly recommend Brandi and her team. Thank you for everything, Caroline & Ryan 5.29.21\n\nCaroline U 5-28\n\nBrandi was recommended to us from a friend. From the beginning she was very easy to talk too and was very helpful. With having to postpone the wedding due to covid in 2020 to having the wedding in 2021 with the restrictions, Brandi was on top of keeping us informed and de stressing my daughter throughout the time. It was very nice to not have to worry about the actual wedding and to just be able to enjoy that special day. I highly recommend Brandi. She was wonderful to work with. Sincerely, mother of the bride.\n\nCheryl A (Mother of  Bride) 4-22\n\nBrandi was phenomenal with our wedding. She was on the ball with all the new mandates and kept my nerves at bay. After our initial consultation I was sold and knew I had to hire her. You won’t be disappointed with All Events Planned.\n\nCali C 4-22-21\n\nWe heard about Brandi from our best friends and she was hands down THE BEST wedding planner we could have ever asked for! We had the unfortunate luck of having a wedding during Covid and Brandi made sure to help us reschedule everything and keep us sane throughout the whole process! On our wedding day Brandi made sure to take full control and all we had to do was enjoy our wedding! It couldn’t have been a more perfect day thanks to Brandi!!\n\nAnissa S 9-24-20\n\nBrandi and the All Events Planned team are incredible! We had two ceremonies in one day and more than the average list of vendors. Brandi helped us navigate COVID-19 with date changes, venue changes and scheduling shifts. Throughout the process, Brandi was always available to chat, offer guidance and provide honest feedback that helped make our day a success! Hiring Brandi was one of the best decisions we could have made and we loved working with her for 2 years of our engagement.:) We were planning a wedding from out of state and Brandi was everything we needed in a wedding planner. Thank you to Brandi for all of your hard work and support!\n\nCaitlin L 10-22-20\n\nBrandi helped us navigate our wedding plans 3 times while working through COVID-19. She made us feel calm while giving us direction as to how to make the wedding work for everybody. We had an issue with our cake vendor, and she took care of it! She had not only one cake, but TWO cakes ready for us come time to do a cake cutting!! We can't recommend her enough! Can't wait to have her and her staff help us next year for our reception!\n\nNicole G 9-18-20\n\nMy husband and I were planning a Cleveland wedding from out of state. Through every step of the process Brandi was there to organize, plan, and even counsel me through the process. She is very personable and will make sure every detail of the big day is what you want it to be. She has great working relationships with vendors and venues in CLE (and surrounding areas) as well- which speaks to her outstanding reputation. We could not have had our most perfect day with out Brandi and her crew at AEP. I highly recommend her- she's more than worth it!\n\nErika M 1-17-20\n\nHiring All Events Planned was one of the best wedding decisions we made. We tried to save money by planning our wedding ourselves and working with our venue coordinator, but we got overwhelmed as our wedding date got closer. We hired Brandi for month-of coordination, and her services were worth every penny! She took over coordinating with our vendors, getting our timeline organized, and helping us make decisions that we didn't know we needed to make. And on our wedding day when I tripped and ripped my dress, she sewed me back up and kept us on schedule! Brandi was overall great to work with and really helped take the pressure off of us.\n\nMelissa B 10-18-19\n\nRachel & Brandi were an absolute godsend. I hired AEP as month & day of planners and coordinators and the month before the wedding went very smoothly because of them. I initially met with Brandi and she made me feel very comfortable about all of my decisions I had made, and made suggestions about where we could improve the timeline. Rachel coordinated the timeline and led communication with all of my vendors, led the rehearsal, and was there for the actual wedding day, and I cannot thank her enough. She made me feel at ease the entire time and pretty much handled everything, all while making sure I had a glass of bubbly in my hand to enjoy the night. Everything went so smoothly, and I know for a fact it was because of Rachel. I cannot stress this enough to brides/grooms planning their wedding..this team was worth their weight in gold. Do not hesitate calling them to help you make your wedding day truly the best day.\n\nKathryn E 12-6-19\n\nNothing but amazing things to say about Brandi Hamerstone with All Events Planned Wedding Planning. We hired Brandi as a partial wedding planner, knowing from experience that she would exceed our expectations! (She was also the wedding planner at my sisters wedding and did an amazing job!) Brandi has a such a happy and pleasant personality, she was very easy to work with. She made all our wishes and requests come true and was there to calm us down when we needed it or when we were super stressed! She provided us with excellent advice on good/bad vendors, where to save money in the budget, and kept the entire day organized for us. After each meeting she would send google docs with the timeline, things that needed to be done still, etc which was super easy to use and super accessible whenever we needed it. It was super easy to scheduled meetings with Brandi and she was always available via text or email to answer any of our questions! 100% look no further if you are trying to find the perfect wedding planner for your big day! Thank you Brandi for making 10.12.19 the best day of our lives!\n\nTaylor N 10-12-19\n\nI LOVED working with Brandi. I initially found AEP and Brandi when I searched The Knot for top-rated wedding planners in the Cleveland area. I no longer live in my hometown and knew that I could use assistance planning the big day from afar. Also, I knew we were having a big wedding, which means lots of moving parts and pieces, and finding someone to oversee the process felt necessary to reduce the stress of planning a wedding. I got a good feeling after speaking with Brandi, and I am so glad that we hired her and her team. She was always available to answer questions and was great with follow-up. She helped make sure that the big day ran smoothly and that my family and I could enjoy it and not have to stress about any of the details. More than that, Brandi is fun and easy to work with. She always has a smile on her face and makes it seem like running a wedding is breeze (which we all know it is definitely not). I am really glad that we decided to use AEP.\n\nGayla S 9-7-19\n\nAs the mother of an out-of-state bride I knew I would need some help. My daughter chose to check out All Events Planned and we all agreed Brandi was the one to go with. We selected the Partial Planning service. I was very unsure of everything that we had to do - Brandi helped us determine what we wanted to do (you don't have to do or have everything you see on websites!). It was very nice to have someone to discuss the choices with. We met with Brandi a few times in the year before the wedding, there were emails too. The couple weeks before the wedding are the busiest - I'm really glad we could count on Brandi and All Events Planned. Brandi attended final walk-throughs at the venues to help solidify the plans. Nataya was present at the rehearsal and made sure everyone knew what to expect and how to act - we had to practice outdoors and indoors to be ready in case of rain. Brandi and another assistant were at the ceremony and the reception and took care of everything. This was the best! I really didn't want to have to worry about a thing. Having a Wedding Planner was one of the best decisions I made for my daughter's wedding. I would encourage any mom to do it - and I would recommend All Events Planned.\n\nGwenn Z (Mother of Bride) 9-28/19"}
