{"title":"Home Remodeling & Additions | Utah | Topp Remodeling & Construction","author":null,"date":"2023-06-14T11:36:56+00:00","main_content":"Trust our experienced builders to create the space your family needs while increasing the value of your home. We are one of Salt Lake County’s leading residential general contractors, having done hundreds of remodels throughout the area.\n\nRenovating a home can be a daunting project, but here at Topp Remodeling & Construction, remodeling your Salt Lake area home to better fit your lifestyle and preferences is our expertise! We love to work with our clients to create a custom space they will love to live in for years to come. Whether you’re thinking of a few upgrades, a full remodel, or a brand new addition to your home, Topp Remodeling & Construction is the team you need.\n\nPerhaps you need more space because your family has grown, your use of the space changed, your home’s layout no longer suits your needs or you need to stay in your current house for a few more years until the real estate market recovers. Whatever your reason, room remodeling, extensions, and additions can solve your problems and add value to your home.\n\nAny large remodeling or home addition project in Salt Lake City requires you to consider many options and choices, to ensure that your addition meets your needs and serves the purpose that you want it to. It’s also important to make sure that the design of the addition flows seamlessly with the rest of your home and neighborhood. Working with an experienced and creative home remodeling contractor in Salt Lake City will guarantee that the planning, design, selections, and construction are done correctly and that you are ultimately happy with your new space.\n\nAt Topp Remodeling & Construction, we think of your addition or remodel project from the inside out. We won’t just tack on an addition to give you more space; we reconfigure your space to work better for you, and to add highly functional square footage to your home. It’s more like an upgrade to your entire home than it is a simple addition to your existing home.\n\nUpgrade your home by remodeling or building new rooms and installing features that will improve livability and value. A sunroom, for example, will help to bring the beauty of the outdoors in, while a family room will be a great space where everyone can spend time together. Second-story additions can also add value and space to your home, while bathroom additions may just make your morning routine a bit easier. Adding or expanding a garage is highly valued today, too, as is a mother-in-law suite for extended family visitors. You can also use a new room as a temporary home office. The home addition that gives the highest value today, though, is a laundry room.\n\nAs excited as you must be to update your home, you’ll want to do a few things first.\nLearn the potential returns on your investment. Home remodeling in Salt Lake City can give you a high ROI and help you sell your property faster, for more money. But even if you have no plans to sell, you and your family can still enjoy a modern kitchen, a new bathroom, new flooring and additions that give you more living space. Your family’s comfort, safety and happiness are worth every penny.\nKnow the home values in your neighborhood. Property prices tend to fall in a certain range, and the collective worth of homes in a neighborhood drive their individual values. Ask real estate agents how much nearby homes are selling for so you can plan renovation projects that will make your house competitive in Salt Lake City’s real estate market.\nConsult with your interior designer. More than helping you achieve the look and feel that you want for your home, they can recommend surface and structural designs to make your home more appealing to potential buyers. They can also help identify upcoming trends so your house will retain a modern look for longer.\nCreate a budget breakdown. When you choose Topp Remodeling & Construction for a home renovation in Salt Lake City, you can expect a budget meeting. Our company values transparency; you will know how much of your funds will go to labor, materials and other specifics.\n\nAt Topp Remodeling & Construction, we think of your addition or remodel project from the inside out. We won’t just tack on an addition to give you more space; we reconfigure your space to work better for you, and to add highly functional square footage to your home. It’s more like an upgrade to your entire home than it is a simple addition to your existing home.\n\nWe also offer our services in framing, custom building, commercial build-outs, and basement finishing. Our crew can work on your home if you’re in Salt Lake or Summit Counties.\n\nGet in touch with us today and schedule an appointment."}
