{"title":"Event Planning Guide 2025: How to plan, which tools to use, and more!","author":"John Hunter","date":"2025-01-22T00:00:00+00:00","main_content":"What is event planning? How do you do it? What tools should you use to make your life easier?\n\nIn this guide, we talk through a basic event planning template, what it means to be a planner, and how event management software can simplify your processes.\n\nWhat is Event Planning?\n\nIt is the process of planning all the details and logistics of an event. That event can range in size, complexity, and purpose. They can be in-person, virtual, webinar or hybrid. It takes a great deal of time and effort to manage an event and involves communication with multiple teams and vendors. Event planning encompasses tasks at all stages of the event cycle, like event marketing, event sponsors, venue sourcing, event branding, building an event website, and more.\n\nEvent Management is Event Planning\n\nPeople tend to call event planning by  many different names.  Some event planners are called administrative assistants, some are called event coordinators, and others are called event managers. What do all of these titles have in common? The individuals have some hand in planning an event. Whether the events are internal or external, large or small, they all have to be planned.\n\nWhat is Virtual Event Planning?\n\nPlanning a virtual event takes as much time and dedication as an in-person or hybrid event. In recent months, we've had to adjust event programs to incorporate these new event types, adding on a learning curve for planners as they get a feel for virtual event planning. There are so many factors to consider when planning a virtual event. Will this content translate well to a virtual setting? Are my speakers prepared to speak virtually? How will I provide my sponsors the same value as they would receive at my in-person event? How long should my sessions last? And finally, what technology should we use to support this event? Planning a virtual event is made easier with technology, or the use of a virtual event platform such as the Virtual Attendee Hub. With virtual event tech, you can plan smarter. \n\nRead  Virtual Event Planning Checklist  for more on virtual event planning."}
