{"title":"20 Event Planner Influencers to Follow on Instagram in 2025","author":null,"date":null,"main_content":"Instagram's visual nature makes it the perfect platform for event professionals to showcase jaw-dropping productions and gain inspiration. From celebrity event designers to festival masterminds, here are 20 top event planner influencers and brands you should follow in 2025.\n\nThese accounts specialise in corporate events, large-scale productions, or festival experiences, and many are known worldwide for their high-impact visuals.\n\n1. Preston Bailey ( @prestonrbailey )\n\nA legendary event designer, Preston Bailey is renowned for transforming venues with extravagant floral installations and over-the-top decor. Bailey has been the go-to planner for A-list clients like Oprah Winfrey, Donna Karan, and Middle Eastern royalty. His Instagram feed is a gallery of breathtaking luxury events – from celebrity weddings to corporate galas – all executed with his signature “make them gasp” style. With decades of experience and several books authored, Preston's posts provide endless inspiration in event design and a peek into the most lavish celebrations on the planet.\n\n2. Colin Cowie ( @colincowie )\n\nColin Cowie is a globally celebrated luxury event planner known for crafting unforgettable experiences for high-profile clients. The South African-born Cowie has created one-of-a-kind events for Oprah Winfrey, Jennifer Aniston, Kim Kardashian, and many more. His Instagram exudes glamour and creativity – from opulent corporate soirées to celebrity weddings and destination parties. With over 30 years in the industry, Colin’s feed offers followers a sophisticated event design masterclass, with lavish tablescapes, exotic locations, and clever details that heighten every guest's experience.\n\n3. Kevin Van der Straeten ( @kevinvds )\n\nKevin Van der Straeten is a Belgian entrepreneur and the founder of eventplanner.net, one of the world's leading platforms for event professionals. A former event manager turned tv host and author of the acclaimed EVENTPLANNER book series, Kevin shares insider tips, trends, and behind-the-scenes looks at the event industry. His Instagram offers a blend of professional inspiration and personal passion, including his adventures as an ultra trail runner, a sport he combines with his work in events and building powerful event planning software. It's a unique mix of high-performance mindset and event innovation, making his profile insightful and refreshingly real.\n\n4. Mindy Weiss ( @mindyweiss )\n\nMindy Weiss is the planner behind many of Hollywood's biggest bashes and weddings. Based in Los Angeles, she's renowned as one of the most creative minds in the event world, producing imaginative and uniquely personal celebrations for clients globally. Mindy's Instagram often showcases celebrity weddings (think Kardashian parties and Justin Bieber's nuptials) and high-end corporate events with equal flair. Dubbed \"the force behind nearly every awe-worthy celebrity bash of the past decade\", according to People, Mindy Weiss dominates with stunning event photos and tips on everything from tabletop design to event branding. Her feed is a goldmine of ideas for making any event picture-perfect.\n\n5. David Tutera ( @davidtutera )\n\nDavid Tutera is an American celebrity event planner, TV host, and author known for his 'once-in-a-lifetime' celebrations. Host of My Fair Wedding and CELEBrations on television, Tutera has been a leader in the events industry for over 30 years. His Instagram reflects his philosophy that every event should be an immersive experience. You'll see grand ballroom weddings, charitable galas, and experiential corporate parties designed by his team. From floral artistry to fashion-forward details, David’s posts highlight why he's been called 'the Best Celebrity Wedding Planner' and why clients from Elton John to royal families have trusted him for their milestone events.\n\n6. Marcy Blum ( @marcyblum )\n\nMarcy Blum is a New York–based event planner and entertaining expert who has written many books on event planning. With a decades-long career, Marcy has orchestrated lavish functions for clients like Kevin Bacon & Kyra Sedgwick, Carl Icahn, Padma Lakshmi, and the Rockefeller family. She began her career in corporate events and evolved into high-society weddings, bringing a sharp eye for detail and a flair for theatrical design. On Instagram, she shares images of sophisticated weddings, chic corporate parties, and personal musings with a dash of humour. Vogue and Harper’s Bazaar have perennially named her to their top planners' lists, and it shows that her feed is a masterclass in blending elegance with creativity.\n\n7. Bronson van Wyck ( @bronsonvanwyck )\n\nBronson van Wyck is an event designer famed for his 'fanciful celebrations for the most discerning customers'. Based in New York, Bronson has produced events for a Who's Who of society, from fashion houses to U.S. presidents. Architectural Digest notes that this event designer creates otherworldly parties for clients with high standards. On Instagram, Bronson offers a glimpse into his world of immersive party environments: think bespoke tented soirées, dazzling charity ball decor, and whimsical touches (his planning firm’s motto is literally “Born to Party”). Follow Bronson for a mix of personal projects, collaborations with his talented team (affectionately called his “elves”), and inspiration on infusing hospitality and generosity into every gathering.\n\n8. Liz Taylor ( @taylorlynncorp )\n\nLiz Taylor – no, not the late actress, but the UK-based event planner – has been at the forefront of Britain’s event scene for over 35 years. As founder of the Taylor Lynn Corporation (TLC) in Manchester, she’s planned everything from celebrity weddings to corporate award ceremonies and lavish charity balls. Liz is known for her fearless creativity and ability to turn fantasy into reality for discerning clients. Her Instagram is filled with dramatic event installations: from grand indoor fireworks at product launches to elegant themed gala dinners. An entrepreneur and now a consultant, Liz frequently appears on TV and podcasts to share her expertise. Following her will give you UK event glamour and expert tips on adding the “wow factor” to any event.\n\n9. Balich Wonder Studio ( @balichwonderstudio )\n\nBalich Wonder Studio (BWS) is a powerhouse in large-scale event production, primarily known for jaw-dropping ceremonies and spectacles. This Milan-based creative studio has the highest number of Olympic Games ceremony credits globally. They’ve produced Olympic opening/closing ceremonies (Rio 2016, Sochi 2014), the 2022 FIFA World Cup show in Qatar, and massive cultural festivals. On Instagram, they share epic snapshots of these events: performers flying through stadiums, monumental stage art, and behind-the-scenes looks at how they use cutting-edge technology and storytelling. They also design luxury brand events for names like Louis Vuitton and Ferrari. Following BWS is a must for anyone fascinated by the production of ceremonies that captivate millions worldwide – their feed truly puts “experience” in experience design.\n\n10. DesignLab Experience ( @designlabexperience )\n\nIf you’re looking for pure event fantasy, DesignLab Experience delivers it in spades. This Dubai and Beirut-based design firm specialises in large-scale events (especially ultra-luxury weddings and private events) that morph ordinary spaces into surreal dreamscapes. With an in-house team of architects and artists, DesignLab creates bespoke environments combining advanced technology with exquisite craftsmanship. Their Instagram showcases some of the most lavish setups on earth: think palatial wedding receptions in the Middle East with custom-built architecture, immersive art installations at festivals, and extravagant floral landscapes. Each post looks like a scene from a fairy tale brought to life. The account gives you a peek into a world where “no idea is too grand” – an endless source of inspiration for event decor and design innovation.\n\n11. Jack Morton Worldwide ( @jackmorton )\n\nJack Morton Worldwide is a global agency famous for experiential marketing and live events. With offices worldwide (from Boston to Sydney), they are best known for large-scale corporate events, brand activations, and even spectacular public events like product launches and expos. As a brand experience agency, Jack Morton’s expertise spans integrated campaigns, sponsorship activations, trade show exhibits, and employee engagement programs. Their Instagram highlights cutting-edge corporate productions – from immersive tech conference stages to inventive pop-up experiences for brands like Adidas, McDonald’s and Meta. In 2023, Adweek named Jack Morton the “Experiential Agency of the Year.” You can see why: their feed is all about blending digital and live experiences creatively. Follow them for insight into how corporate events can be as engaging and Instagrammable as any festival.\n\n12. MKG ( @thisismkg )\n\nMKG is an award-winning creative agency specialising in brand experiences and experiential events. Helmed by an all-female leadership team, MKG produces live experiences for some of the world’s top brands. Scroll through their Instagram and you’ll find a vibrant mix of corporate activations and cultural events: a sneaker brand’s interactive pop-up lounge at NBA All-Star Weekend, a tech company’s whimsical conference lounge, or a spirits brand’s festival sponsorship installation. MKG’s style is youthful, edgy, and highly visual – they love using bold colours, interactive elements, and on-trend design. They’ve done everything from retail environment design to mobile marketing tours. This agency’s feed is an excellent follow to see how marketing meets events, with posts that spark ideas on experiential branding and attendee engagement.\n\n13. Q-dance ( @q-dance )\n\nFor fans of festivals (especially EDM festivals), Q-dance is a household name. This Dutch event organiser focuses on dance music's “harder styles” and is behind some of the world’s most famous electronic music festivals. Q-dance produces events like Defqon.1 (a massive multi-day festival), Qlimax (a legendary indoor hardstyle show), and many more in the Netherlands and abroad. Their Instagram is a feast of festival eye-candy: colossal stage designs packed with LEDs and lasers, pyrotechnics shooting into the night sky, and crowds of tens of thousands united by the music. Follow Q-dance to immerse yourself in cutting-edge festival production – from stage construction timelapses to the ecstatic moments of DJs dropping beats to throngs of fans. It’s not just for music lovers; event professionals can glean inspiration on crowd engagement and theming at scale from these masters of festival show design.\n\n14. Tomorrowland ( @tomorrowland )\n\nTomorrowland is more than a festival – it’s a global event production and community-building phenomenon. Held in Boom, Belgium, Tomorrowland is one of the world's largest annual electronic dance music festivals, known for its fairy-tale theming and epic stage sets. Tomorrowland boasts nearly 10 million followers on Instagram, making it one of the most-followed event brands. Their feed transports you to a magical realm: expect photos of towering fantasy-themed stages, breathtaking fireworks over crowds, and attendees decked out in imaginative costumes. Beyond the visuals, Tomorrowland’s influence is massive – their 2017 event was reportedly the biggest social media music event ever, with over 1.2 billion online views. By following Tomorrowland, you’ll see how an event can create an immersive story world for attendees. It’s a masterclass in branding, community engagement, and the power of high-production values in live experiences.\n\n15. Es Devlin ( @esdevlin )\n\nEs Devlin is not a traditional event planner – an artist and stage designer – but her influence on large-scale events is profound. Based in the UK, Devlin creates large-scale performative sculptures and environments that fuse music, language, and light. She has conceived jaw-dropping stage designs for Beyoncé’s and U2’s world tours, Adele’s concerts, The Weeknd, Kanye West, and even Olympic ceremonies. Following her on Instagram is like stepping into a visionary’s sketchbook. She shares conceptual models of sets, art installations from her exhibitions, and behind-the-scenes looks at her design process. Stadium tours and Super Bowl halftime shows often have her creative fingerprints. For event professionals, Es Devlin’s work underscores the impact of story-driven design – how to achieve intimacy and narrative even on a massive scale (as an NPR piece noted, her job is to create “intimacy on a massive scale,” whether for a concert or the Olympics). Her feed will inspire you to think outside the box (literally – one of her famous works was a giant singing cube!) regarding stage and environment design.\n\n16. C2 Montréal ( @c2montreal )\n\nC2 Montréal is a one-of-a-kind creative business conference that feels more like an innovation playground. Founded in 2012 in partnership with Cirque du Soleil and agency Sid Lee, C2 has been called the “most forward-thinking business event in the world”. Each year in Montreal, they blend commerce and creativity, bringing together leaders from over 50 countries to spark bold ideas. On Instagram, C2 showcases the conference’s immersive environments: mid-air brainstorming sessions in spider-web nets, interactive art installations for attendees, and avant-garde stage designs. Picture a business conference where attendees might paddle in a pool during a workshop or wander through a neon-lit forest of ideas – that’s the vibe of C2. Their posts also highlight thought-provoking quotes and visuals from speakers and labs. Follow this account to see how to break the mould of traditional corporate events and engage an audience in truly experiential ways. (Bonus: C2’s content often comes in English and French, reflecting its Canadian roots.)\n\n17. Ken Fulk ( @kenfulk )\n\nKen Fulk is a San Francisco-based designer often described as a “designer of experiences big and small.” Renowned for his layered interiors, high-concept hospitality projects, and unforgettable parties, Fulk has a client list spanning tech billionaires, fashion houses, and celebrities (he’s orchestrated everything from elaborate birthday parties to charity galas that wow). On Instagram, Ken offers a window into his whimsical world: one post might show a majestic tented dinner in Napa with velvet lounges and chandeliers hung from trees, another might reveal a sumptuous holiday party he designed in a private estate. His style is eclectic, imaginative, and often with a sense of theatrical fun – he’s been known to bring in circus elements or transform spaces into fantasy settings. By following Ken, you’ll glean ideas on merging interior design with event design and see how lifestyle, décor, and events intersect at the highest level of luxury. Plus, he occasionally shares peeks of his own homes and projects (like his private arts club in a restored church), a testament to living and entertaining artfully.\n\n18. Jung Lee ( @jungleeny )\n\nJung Lee is one of New York’s most sought-after event planners and designers, co-founder of the famed planning firm Fête. She has been hailed as a top planner by Vogue, Harper’s Bazaar, The New York Times, and more. Jung’s speciality is crafting spectacular celebrations for a discriminating roster of clients (from society weddings to Fortune 500 company events). On Instagram, Jung blends two sides of her world: you’ll see both her event work and her home décor ventures (she also runs a luxury home store). Her event posts often feature imaginative tablescapes and experiential details – think dinner tables suspended from the ceiling or weddings with custom-built greenhouses as venues. “No two Fête events are alike,” and you can see that ethos in her feed. Jung is also known for a reality TV appearance on TLC’s Wedded to Perfection, and she brings that perfectionist yet creative energy to Instagram. Follow her for luxury event inspiration with an NYC edge, and tips on personalising events to tell a couple’s (or a brand’s) unique story.\n\n19. André Wells ( @eventsandrewells )\n\nBased in Washington, D.C., André Wells has made a name as a planner of high-fashion, high-profile events. Harper’s Bazaar included him in their list of top wedding planners worldwide, and his company, Events by André Wells, handles everything from political inauguration events to celebrity weddings. André’s aesthetic is fashion-forward and colourful, with a knack for bold design choices that still feel elegant. His Instagram is brimming with vibrant content: luxury weddings under jaw-dropping floral ceilings, VIP receptions at museums and embassies, and stylish details from parties for professional athletes and CEOs. He often shares behind-the-scenes peeks of his team setting up ballroom transformations or his outfit flair when hosting events (André is known as a style maven himself). Follow him to see how D.C. sophistication meets creative design – and for expert advice on event lighting and ambience (he’s a big believer that dramatic lighting can make an event unforgettable).\n\n20. Fiona Leahy ( @fionaleahydesign )\n\nFiona Leahy is a London-based event designer revered for her tablescape artistry and high-fashion events. Fiona Leahy Design has produced events for luxury brands like Christian Dior, Louis Vuitton, Stella McCartney, private parties for Dita Von Teese, and even royalty. Fiona’s Instagram @fionaleahydesign (where she dubs herself the “Queen of Tablescapes”) is a trove of gorgeous detail shots. She showcases inventive place settings, whimsical centrepieces, and entire themed dinners resembling art installations. From a chic Parisian dinner party with miniature landmarks on each table, to personalised snow-globe favours she crafted for Louis Vuitton’s holiday event – her feed proves why she’s one of the most celebrated luxury event designers. Fiona also shares inspiration from her travels and collaborations (and occasionally her adorable dog, who frequents her studio). If you want to elevate your event décor game, following Fiona will provide endless inspiration on blending fashion, art, and events into memorable experiences.\n\nBonus: eventplanner.net ( @eventplanner_net )\n\nThe official account of eventplanner.net is a must-follow for anyone in the event industry. The feed is packed with value, from breathtaking event setups and expert tips to interviews with industry leaders and behind-the-scenes content. It's also where you’ll find highlights from the eventplanner.tv show and updates on the free event planning software that’s helping professionals worldwide streamline their workflow. Whether you’re organising corporate events, festivals, or anything in between, this account delivers daily inspiration and practical tools to make you the hero of every event.\n\nConclusion: Whether you're into corporate conferences that break the mould, opulent weddings fit for royalty, or festivals that set social media ablaze, these 20 Instagram accounts have you covered. Each influencer or brand on this list brings a unique vision to the event industry, showcasing how events can be experiences that linger in memory. By following them, you’ll enjoy jaw-dropping visuals on your feed and pick up ideas on creativity, innovation, and the art of event planning at scale. Here's to an inspired 2025 - happy scrolling, and happy planning!"}
