{"title":"2025's weight loss revolution: New medications are changing the scale","author":"Ariel Frankeny","date":"2025-01-31T00:00:00+00:00","main_content":"Recent introductions of medical weight loss solutions over the past few years have changed the health, wellness and aesthetic landscapes like few innovations in recent history. A spotlight on weight loss drugs means a greater focus on further medical innovations as researchers work tirelessly to improve existing medications and develop new and exciting solutions for interested patients.\n\nThe start of a new year often brings announcements of new innovations and technologies, and the realm of weight loss is no exception. The upcoming year will offer advancements in this area, with new medications that offer truly amazing results.\n\nWe sat down with ASPS Member Surgeon Johnny Franco, MD, to gather more insight into the new advancements in the field of medical weight loss that we should expect to see in the upcoming year.\n\nASPS: Looking ahead to the new year, one of the hottest topics is weight loss, specifically the exciting developments in the field of weight loss medications. Are there any new medications hitting the market in 2025 that patients should be aware of?\n\nDr. Franco: There's going to be at least three new medications this year, maybe more. They're going to do a bit of a reiteration of what's out there now. The most exciting one, also known as the \"triple G,\" will have three GLP hormones instead of the one or two that are typically found in medications now. This medication will be equal to or surpass bariatric surgery in the amount of weight loss that patients can have. This is especially exciting for those patients who haven't really lost weight on semaglutide or tirzepatide or have a lot of weight to lose. It will also help counter the resistance that some patients can develop to these medications over time.\n\nThere are also some new oral medications hitting the market that will be very similar to Wegovy or the other semaglutide options out there. There are some on the market now, but they're not as effective as injectables. This new oral one will be just as effective! There are also trials upcoming for injectables that will be once per month rather than once per week.\n\nIn general, there is a big movement in the GLPs and weight loss medications towards fitness and well-being, just the idea of being healthier and stronger. This is going to resonate with patients much more. There are even stats that show that patients are going back to their primary care doctors specifically for this type of medication and are seeing overall health improvements from it.\n\nASPS: Which new medications are you particularly excited about? Which patients would these be best suited for?\n\nDr. Franco: There will be some new combinations of medications hitting the market that help conserve lean muscle mass while also promoting weight loss. If you can stimulate muscle mass and also promote weight loss, this is an amazing combination for aesthetics. Not only is this great for athletes and other individuals concerned with their physique, but it'll also prove beneficial for patients who are looking to become stronger and healthier rather than just lose weight.\n\nASPS: Are there any new medications that patients should avoid or pursue with caution?\n\nDr. Franco: Not specifically. My only fear with these new medications is the idea that, as humans, we all want to get to our goal as quickly as possible. Patients may end up misusing these medications, such as the \"triple G,\" to try to get to their results as quickly as possible without making any other key lifestyle changes in the process. I think that we're going to see where we've really had to work with patients about how to get patients to a great place where they're healthy and fit but not overdoing it. There's really a fine balance to doing this.\n\nASPS: Are there any other new medications or developments in the field of weight loss that are coming up on the horizon that we should keep an eye out for?\n\nDr. Franco: I think we're going to see a lot more people doing hormone treatments and overall genome testing-type things. The idea now is that there are a lot of reasons people gain weight – it can be medications, hormone imbalances, too much stress, lifestyle choices, etc. There are a lot of opportunities to help people not only live longer but live better.\n\nWe're also probably going to see more of the AI coming into it – there are apps and technologies out there now that are changing the game when it comes to weight loss. For example, with one app, you can take a picture of what you're eating right now and see the calorie and nutrient breakdown. This will be so beneficial, as many patients don't realize that they may think that they're eating well, but it might not be up to par. On the same note, with muscle loss, patients can see that they may not be getting enough calories or protein in and using this technology can help educate them about this and make the adjustment process super smooth.\n\nASPS: How would you recommend patients get started on their weight loss journey with the assistance of medications?\n\nDr. Franco: I think there are a couple of ways to start, and it depends on where they are on a medical level. A lot of people we see in aesthetics are young, healthy patients without any medical issues. I do think it's great to do these things with patients from start to finish so that they can understand what's coming, learn from experience and hear from individuals who are truly passionate about it. They really need to see someone who knows what the right medication is for them. Finding the right team is the first step.\n\nASPS: Are there any steps that patients can take to prepare for success in losing weight with the assistance of weight loss medications?\n\nDr. Franco: I always tell patients, if they're going to start these medications, you have to think about these as one part of the puzzle. If you're not committed to making overall changes, you're setting yourself up for disappointment. The idea is that this is making other lifestyle changes easier – you crave less bad food, it decreases inflammation, etc. It can be little changes at a time, but it needs to be something. In other words, it's not a weight loss prescription, it's a weight loss program for yourself. Patients need to understand the difference.\n\nASPS: What would you say to those who oppose using medications to help with weight loss?\n\nDr. Franco: Obesity has gone up every year until these medications were introduced. The fact that these have helped to stabilize obesity is huge. The fact that it's driven more people into their primary care physicians is huge. The thing is, this is an adjunct to overall healthy lifestyle changes – it's not one or the other. What we had been doing in the past wasn't working. It's not for everyone, but it's working for many.\n\nTo find a qualified plastic surgeon for any cosmetic or reconstructive procedure, consult a member of the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. All ASPS members are board certified by the American Board of Plastic Surgery, have completed an accredited plastic surgery training program, practice in accredited facilities and follow strict standards of safety and ethics. Find an ASPS member in your area."}
