{"title":"Should You Get Travel Insurance? What You Should Know About Protecting Your Trips","author":null,"date":null,"main_content":"Are you headed abroad for the summer? Planning a road trip before school starts again? You've put a lot of thought and planning into your vacation. And, you've spent a lot of money on flights, hotels, and more. Unexpected circumstances like injury, illness, flight delays or natural disasters could cut a trip short, leaving you with unforeseen costs. But there are insurance options that can protect your finances. \n\nShould I get travel insurance? Before you buy a policy, ask yourself: \n\nWhat are the chances you'll be impacted by severe weather or another event?\n\nHow willing are you to take risks?\n\nHow much are you willing to pay for a back-up plan?\n\nDo you have questionable health or is a loved one ill?\n\nIf you cannot afford to cancel and rebook your trip or your health insurance doesn't cover you abroad, you should consider travel insurance. You typically don't need travel insurance for short trips close to home.\n\nHow much does travel insurance cost?  Travel insurance usually costs between 4-8% of a trip's price, according to the U.S. Travel Insurance Association. Several factors fo into the cost like the policy holder's age, your destination, and the length of your trip. \n\nWhen should I buy travel insurance?  It is a good idea for policy holders to coverage when they book their trip.Travel insurance is intended to protect travelers against sudden and unforeseen events. Typically, if you buy travel insurance after a winter or tropical storm is named, your plan won't provide coverage for claims related to that event.\n\nWhat are the different types of travel insurance?  There are several types of categories of travel insurance including:\n\nTrip cancellation.   Reimburses pre-paid travel expenses if you are prevented from taking your trip for a reason covered by your policy. It is typically included in every comprehensive policy. You will usually receive reimbursement if your trip is cancelled for: unexpected illness or injury of you or a traveling companion that deems you unfit to travel; hospitalization or death of non-traveling family member; weather or common carrier issues; unforeseen natural disaster at home or the destination; a legal obligation such as being called for jury duty or serving as a witness in court.\n\nTravel medical and major medical.  Provides protection if you become ill or injured while traveling. Travel medical insurance provides short-term medical coverage.\n\nEmergency medical evacuation.  Provides coverage for services such as air evacuation and medical transportation to the nearest adequate medical facility then home if warranted. This type of coverage is useful if you're traveling to a rural area without easy access to medical facilities.  In the event a person passes away during travel, repatriation coverage will cover for the insurer to handle the necessary transportation.\n\nAccidental death and dismemberment.  Provides coverage to beneficiaries if you die in an accident on the trip or pays a sum to you if you lose a hand, foot, limb or eyesight from an accident. Some plans only apply to an accident that occurs on an aircraft.\n\nBaggage loss.   Reimburses for loss of baggage or personal items. Check with your credit card company to find out if it coverages baggage loss. \n\nCancel For Any Reason (CFAR) policies.  These policies are more expensive and typically only reimburse you a percentage of your travel costs. The reason for cancellation is not relevant. There is usually a time frame for when cancellations are allowed, and you must insure all of your pre-paid and non-refundable expenses. CFAR policies are usually added as an extra option in addition to trip cancellation coverage.\n\nDoes travel insurance cover epidemics and pandemics? Travel insurance policies typically exclude epidemics and pandemics. According to Allianz Global Assistance, a travel insurance provider, \"Trip cancellations and trip interruptions due to known, foreseeable, or expected events, epidemics, or fear of travel are generally not covered.\"\n\nCOVID-19 is a known event, meaning it is  not  likely that travel insurance policies will cover changes in plans or cancellations for that reason. Review your travel policy to find out which exclusions apply.\n\nThere may be coverage if a specific country imposes travel restrictions. Some airlines and tour companies will allow cancellations outside of an insurance policy. Additionally, travel policies with medical coverage may cover any illnesses or hospitalizations that occur during a trip, but you need to review your policy to see if your policy is one of them.\n\nWhat do travel insurance policies cover?  Each type of insurance has its coverage limitations and exclusions. Be sure ask your agent or company about these before you buy a policy. \n\nTravel cancellation:   Exclusions might include canceling your trip due to being detained by customs or having to cancel due to a work obligation. If your flight is delayed, you may or may not be covered. Some policies only cover trip cancellation claim if you lose more than 50% of your scheduled trip length due to a covered delay. You also must make a good faith effort to continue your travels using alternative means. A \"Cancel for Any Reason\" policy is an option for broader coverage but reimbursement is usually for less than the full cost of the trip.\n\nTravel medical and major medical insurance.  Find out if your policy requires you to obtain prior approval before seeking medical care. Also check if any pre-existing medical conditions will exclude you from coverage.\n\nEmergency medical evacuation/repatriation:  Coverage may not cover you if you're participating in an activity your insurer considers dangerous such as sky diving. There are specialty insurance products for some activities, such as SCUBA diving.\n\nWill travel insurance cover my property if it is lost or stolen during a trip?  Most homeowners insurance policies cover personal property lost or stolen during a trip. Check with your insurer to see what they cover while you are traveling. If you have expensive items, you might want to add a  rider  to your current homeowners policy to cover them. \n\nAbout the National Association of Insurance Commissioners\n\nAs part of our state-based system of insurance regulation in the United States, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) provides expertise, data, and analysis for insurance commissioners to effectively regulate the industry and protect consumers. The U.S. standard-setting organization is governed by the chief insurance regulators from the 50 states, the District of Columbia and five U.S. territories. Through the NAIC, state insurance regulators establish standards and best practices, conduct peer reviews, and coordinate regulatory oversight. NAIC staff supports these efforts and represents the collective views of state regulators domestically and internationally."}
