{"title":"Yoga Class Reviews | Elizabeth Scala | Holistic Nurse | Bestselling Author | Yoga Teacher","author":"Nicole, Parkton, MD","date":"2022-11-12T02:17:09+00:00","main_content":"REGISTRATION: Email Elizabeth at support@ elizabethscala.com\nSpace is limited to TEN people.\nRegister early to secure your spot!\n\n“Elizabeth is a thoughtful and fun instructor. She provides a comfortable atmosphere with clear cues, explanations, and a respect for each person’s process. I love that she challenges us with balance and strengthening activities and makes sure that each session has unique elements, so it is never boring!”  Nicole, Parkton, MD\n\n“I noticed an increase in flexibility because of the yoga classes. I’m also able to manage stress more successfully. I enjoy how Elizabeth explains the yoga poses and provides a relaxing atmosphere for class.”  Linda, Parkton, MD\n\n“I really enjoy Elizabeth’s teaching, she makes sure to take both mind and body into consideration in each class.”  Mary Beth, White Hall, MD\n\n“Because of the yoga session, I’ve improved my stability and can stand on one leg for longer periods of time. Elizabeth’s yoga style is very helpful to beginner students. I enjoyed how she sent us follow-up information after each class so we could get a better understanding of yoga or prepare for the upcoming class.”  Maria, White Hall, MD\n\n“I absolutely loved taking Elizabeth’s yoga class! I recently lost a good deal of weight and haven’t done much exercise in years. I was able to do almost all of the posses and always felt so good after class. I highly recommend taking her classes!”  Margie, Stewartstown, PA\n\n“I’d like to thank Elizabeth for the wonderful 6 week yoga session. I’ve learned so much from her in a short amount of time. My favorite part was learning 5-6 different breathing methods which I now use during my daily life. She’s an inspiration.”  Marguerite, Parkton, MD\n\n“I would highly recommend taking Elizabeth’s yoga classes. I enjoyed it and love her teaching style. I like the small classes and plan to take another one.”  Kim, Hereford, MD\n\n“ After the yoga classes, I noticed I felt calmer overall. This was surprising because I don’t feel like I ‘ worked ‘ hard to achieve that feeling. I am so used to having to grind at everything that it was a refreshing break. Thanks for the amazing yoga practice!” Melissa, Maryland\n\n“Finding Elizabeth’s studio has been a complete practice changer!! I will be forever spoiled with intimate, personal, and fun practices; you can’t get these types of experiences in big corporation companies. I am excited to continue to practice with her!” Danielle, White Hall, MD\n\n“I really like how Elizabeth reviews what we’ll be doing before the class starts. It’s helpful when she provides details on how an exercise will benefit us if we practice it at home regularly. Elizabeth is a very calm instructor. I appreciate how she gives individual instruction to people with different needs and watches out for us safety-wise.” Jain, Parkton, MD\n\n“Elizabeth provides a wellness-focused yoga practice that reflects her holistic background, knowledge, and beliefs. My body and spirit benefitted from this session and I will continue!” Pat, Baltimore, MD\n\n“I started yoga with some trepidation. Elizabeth has made my concerns disappear. I am not a spiritual or easygoing person. The class has done wonders to help me relax and build strength in my body and mind. Great experience all around.” Curt, Parkton, MD\n\n“I always looked forward to going to Elizabeth’s yoga classes. Elizabeth is a wonderful teacher that puts a lot of thought into practice. Her instructions are so clear and concise that you never need to watch her, but just listen. Every practice is a little different and Elizabeth always gives modifications for us beginners/older folk. I’m excited about her new venue and hope to see her there soon.” Linda, Parkton, MD\n\n“I love Elizabeth’s teaching style. She explains each yoga pose and is always willing to help us. I like how Elizabeth is a kind, gentle teacher, yet pushes us to improve each week. I always leave class feeling renewed.” Joanne, Freeland, MD\n\n“I noticed an increased range of motion and moments of mental rest because of the yoga classes. I liked how the classes offer a variety of movements and are relaxing, mentally. Thank you for a wonderful first yoga experience!” Tom, Jarrettsville, MD\n\n“Yoga was fun!!! I had a great time and was more relaxed after your class than I have been in a while. I’ve had a lot of stress at work and it just felt good to breathe and stretch.” Bonnie, Fallston, MD\n\n“It was great taking yoga with Elizabeth. She is a wonderful instructor, introducing us to a lot of different practices and techniques which also keep it fun and interesting. If you had to miss a class, she made every accommodation to try and help you make up the class. She is a great person and I look forward to more classes with her in the future.” Dana, Monkton, MD\n\n“I’ve noticed some improved flexibility because of the yoga classes. I like the variety of the class sequences. Each class is different, and I enjoy the way Elizabeth reviews the class layout before each practice.” Diana, Parkton, MD\n\n“As a woman in my 80s who has never done anything similar and was quite apprehensive, I particularly appreciated Elizabeth’s calm, matter-of-fact attitude. She never made me feel “lesser” when I was unable to do the poses as well as I would have 20 years ago! “ From a Student in the Spring Session, 2023\n\n“I haven’t needed to go to the chiropractor since taking weekly yoga classes. My lower back pain is pretty much gone! I loved the openness of the yoga studio! Being able to see outside and have a relaxing environment was amazing.\n\nI love taking yoga with Elizabeth! The classes really are for any level of yogi. I love the atmosphere of the studio, her teaching style, and how the classes were laid out.” From a Student in the Autumn Session, 2022\n\n“After yoga, I’ve enjoyed more calmness, focus, less physical pain with less stiffness, and more openness in the joints. Elizabeth is very clear and descriptive with each posture. The yoga studio is calming, open, safe, and comfortable, and feels close to nature. “ From a Student in the Autumn Session, 2022\n\n“Elizabeth is a fantastic instructor. She is very welcoming, and her studio space is great. I like that she keeps the class size small. She challenges her students without pushing us past our limits, and works with what we want from her. This is a great class for everyone, whether you are a beginner or have been practicing for years.” From a Student in the Spring Session, 2022\n\n“I leave Elizabeth’s classes feeling lighter and calmer. The atmosphere in the studio is friendly, casual, and peaceful and the classes are great for all levels of yoga experience! I will be continuing to sign up for her classes!” From a Student in the Spring Session, 2022\n\nSIX WEEKS FOR $100.\nEMAIL ELIZABETH SCALA TO REGISTER."}
