{"title":"Shopping on social media: platforms are transforming the way we buy","author":"Nina Miller","date":"2024-09-26T14:00:45.880+00:00","main_content":"Author:\nNina Miller\n\nSocial media platforms have evolved far beyond their original purpose of connecting people; they have transformed into major shopping hubs. This shift has significantly impacted global markets, especially in countries like the U.K. and Indonesia, where consumers have fully embraced the seamless integration of shopping into their social media experiences.\n\nRecently, ByteDance expanded this trend by officially launching its social commerce feature, “TikTok Shop,” in the U.S. The platform now offers a shop tab for browsing products, creator-tagged purchases, an affiliate program, and secure checkout. With over 100,000 creators and 200,000 sellers participating, TikTok is testing whether its captivating content can translate into a powerful commerce engine.\n\nTikTok Shop, in particular, has led this social commerce revolution in the U.K. since its official launch in September 2023. TikTok Shop lets users purchase products directly within the app, combining entertainment and shopping. This setup has been a game changer for brands, particularly in the beauty and lifestyle industry. Companies like Benefit Cosmetics have capitalized on TikTok’s unique algorithm, which promotes products to users based on their preferences, enabling brands to reach new and highly engaged audiences. With 55% of TikTok users making impulse purchases through the app, the platform’s ability to drive consumer spending has been remarkable. TikTok Shop’s success in the U.K. has shown how this form of social commerce is becoming central to the retail experience.\n\nIn contrast, Indonesia presents a slightly different story of social commerce. Although TikTok Shop was gaining traction, the platform was banned in the country due to government concerns over unfair competition with traditional retailers. Despite this, Indonesia remains one of the largest online shopping markets. Instagram and Facebook have become the go-to platforms for social buying in the absence of TikTok Shop. In Indonesia, Instagram’s Shoppable features, such as product tagging and live shopping events, have become essential for brands looking to connect with consumers. Instagram Live, in particular, has enabled businesses to showcase products and interact with potential buyers in real time, making it a powerful tool for social commerce. \n\nGlobally, Facebook and Instagram are the dominant players in the social commerce space. Facebook Shops lets businesses list their products directly on the platform, creating an all-in-one shopping experience. This has been particularly effective in the U.K. and Indonesia, where brands rely on these platforms to engage with customers and facilitate transactions without users needing to leave the app. Instagram’s visual appeal makes it especially popular among the younger population, who appreciate shopping conveniently while scrolling through stories or posts.\n\nSeveral factors have contributed to the growth of social commerce in these regions. One of the primary drivers is the convenience of shopping directly within social media apps. Consumers, especially millennials and Gen Z, appreciate this process’s ease, allowing them to discover, engage with, and purchase products in one place. This is particularly true in Indonesia, where mobile devices are the primary means of internet access, making social media a crucial shopping tool. Platforms like Instagram and Facebook, which offer a seamless shopping experience optimized for mobile users, are therefore essential in markets where mobile commerce dominates.\n\nAnother critical factor in the growth of social commerce is the influence of user-generated content and influencer marketing. In the U.K. and Indonesia, influencers play a significant role in promoting products. Their ability to create authentic, relatable content resonates with audiences and builds trust, which is crucial for driving purchases. Whether it’s a beauty tutorial on TikTok or a fashion review on Instagram, influencers have a unique ability to bridge the gap between entertainment and shopping. This dynamic has helped brands establish a deeper connection with their audiences, further fueling the social commerce trend.\n\nThe future of social commerce looks bright as platforms like TikTok, Instagram, and Facebook continue to innovate. Brands that leverage the unique features of these platforms, such as live shopping events, product tagging, and influencer partnerships, will be well-positioned to tap into the growing demand for social-first shopping experiences. The ability to shop directly within social media apps is not just a convenience—it’s reshaping the global retail landscape. As consumers increasingly turn to their favorite platforms for entertainment and purchasing, the boundaries between these experiences will continue to blur, offering exciting opportunities for businesses worldwide.\n\nFile under\n\nInternational Business\n\nRetail\n\nUnited States\n\nIndonesia\n\nUnited Kingdom\n\nSocial Media Series"}
