{"title":"10 Tips for Success in Music Lessons","author":null,"date":null,"main_content":"Have a child or teen in music lessons? Maybe you are thinking about getting them started? While lessons are a fantastic creative opportunity and an amazing artistic outlet, one thing is for sure – learning a new instrument is challenging. Of course, we know that anything worth pursuing rarely comes easily!  The great news is that there are many ways that you can help them succeed!\n\n1. Find the Right Music Studio\n\nThe first step towards success is finding the best studio for your family. You can start by asking trusted friends, the music teacher at your child’s school, or even seeking recommendations from a local Facebook group. Google reviews are another good place to begin your research. Look for studios that not only produce results, but who have nurturing, caring teachers. Inquire about the teacher’s qualifications. People often think the child’s first teacher does not need a lot of teaching experience, but nothing could be further from the truth! The first teacher is quite often one of the most important, and sets the tone for what will hopefully be a lifelong love of music.\n\n2. Participate in Studio Events\n\nOne marker of a great studio is one that holds regular events and performance opportunities. An active, thriving studio will give their students a plethora of opportunities to perform. These regular goals help students stay motivated.  Performing also helps students build their confidence and feel part of the studio community. Many studios offer annual assessment opportunities as well such as the NFMC Music Festival and Royal Conservatory Examinations.\n\n3. Year-Round Music Lessons\n\nWhile it may be tempting to litter extended breaks throughout the year, this can have a detrimental effect on your child’s progress in music. Breaks can make it harder for your child to retain the skills and knowledge they have learned throughout their lessons. Imagine your fourth grader going an entire summer without reading. It’s the same with music, except perhaps even more drastic! A student who doesn’t take lessons in the summer will find not only their music reading ability to suffer, but they will lose some of their technical skills as well. Possibly most harmful is that students get out of the routine of lessons and practicing, which can be difficult to return to with enthusiasm.\n\n4. Good Communication with Your Music Teacher\n\nThe music lesson doesn’t end once you have picked up your child from their lesson. It is essential for parents to stay in contact with their child’s teacher to fully understand how the child is progressing and how the parent can best help the child at home. Keeping an open line of communication between you and your music studio ensures you child the greatest possible benefit for your child’s music study.\n\n5. Establish Daily Routines at Home\n\nStudents who maintain the same weekly practice schedule often find they are more able to keep practicing consistent. If a child knows they are to practice daily at 4:00 PM, for instance, they begin to associate that time of day with the activity. Consult your child’s teacher about an appropriate amount of practice time. Some teachers prefer to focus on the completion of daily goals rather than a set practice time.\n\n6. Keep it Positive\n\nMusic lessons are a year round activity and with any long term commitment there will be some bumps along the way. A positive atmosphere at home regarding lessons goes a long way, especially when things are not quite as easy as they might have been in the beginning. Consider ways you can show your child you are proud of their efforts; flower at a recital, a visit to the ice cream shop for passing a level of method books.. get creative and keep it fun!\n\n7. A Successful Practice Space\n\nSetting up a good practice environment for your musician is key in helping them practice their instrument effectively. Try to create a space that gives them the privacy they need to learn their instrument. Noisy and crowded rooms can make it harder to stay engaged and focused on their musical skills. Make sure they also have all of the necessary materials for practicing (timer, pencil, music books, metronome, tuner, etc.)\n\n8. Sit With Them From Time to Time\n\nYour child may be more comfortable sitting by themselves while they practice, but sitting in on a few practice sessions can be incredibly beneficial. You do not need musical training to help your child make the most of their practice time. Simply being there and showing that you are supportive and interested in their creative outlet can help boost their confidence and keep them motivated. Join them on the piano bench, or even have a mini concert in the living room! Showing interest in your child’s musical progress will speak volumes to them.\n\n9. Ensure that Your Child has the Proper Equipment\n\nMany children get their first instrument from a family, friend, or second-hand outlet – which is completely understandable; some instruments are expensive. However, it is very important to ensure that your child’s instrument is in proper playing condition. An instrument that is not well maintained and professionally tuned can be detrimental to the child’s progress. Contact a reputable technician, for example Registered Piano Technician, to help maintain your instrument (and protect your investment!)\n\n10. Most Important – Keep Music Fun!\n\nAlways remember that playing music should be a fun and enlightening experience for your child. Your attitude towards music lessons is one of the defining reasons for your child’s success. Always be their biggest fan!\n\nShare this:"}
