{"title":"Personal Training & Group Training Workouts | Anytime Fitness","author":null,"date":"2016-12-10T00:01:08+00:00","main_content":"empower your fitness journey with AF TRAINING Take your fitness journey to the next level with personalized training support, guidance, and technology. FIND YOUR GYM JUMP TO JUMP TO coaching expertise personalized to your goals Whether you’re a seasoned gym-goer or just getting started, we’ve got your back. If you just want to do your thing, the Anytime Fitness App is like having a Coach in your pocket. If you are looking for more hands-on support to accelerate your progress, our AF Coach-led personal training options may be exactly what you need. Shaped by real-world experience with millions of members and backed by a science-based approach.  Did you know? Personal Trainers Boost Success by 30% Working with a personal trainer (aka an AF Coach) can increase the success of reaching your fitness goals by more than 30% according to the Journal of Sports Science & Medicine.   Get Started with a Free Fitness Consultation In this 1-on-1 session, an expert AF Coach will discuss your goals and use the Evolt body composition scanner to establish your baseline. Then using your data and the latest science, they’ll create a personalized plan for training, nutrition, and recovery to guide your fitness journey.  SCIENCE-BASED FITNESS TRAINING BUILT ON 4 key PILLARS Shaped by real-world experience with millions of members and backed by a science-based approach, AF Training delivers safe, effective, and sustainable results for your body and mind. We use proven methods that focus on muscle development, holistic physical and mental health, program variety, and progress measurement.   strength + cardiovascular training optimizes performance By combining resistance training with cardio, AF Training improves your strength, performance, and energy levels.   Builds and maintains muscle strength and endurance  Boosts metabolism and manages weight  Promotes heart health and reduces stress  Functional Fitness Enhances Mobility & Balance Functional training is designed to improve the quality of real-life activities by improving your ability to squat, lunge, push, and pull.   Promotes a more active and enjoyable lifestyle  Reduces pain and discomfort during everyday activities  Decreased risk of injury   Workout Variety Boosts Confidence & Outcomes Each training session is unique and designed to keep you motivated and challenged on your path to achieve lasting results.   Enhanced self-esteem and body confidence  Increased mental resilience and stamina  Workout variety helps builds physical abilities  Interconnected Technology Assess & Track Progress By harnessing a range of fitness technologies, such as the Evolt 360 body composition scanner, the Anytime Fitness App, and Apple Health/Google Health Connect, we use data to gauge progress beyond the scale, personalize your plan, and celebrate your success.   Tracking provides measurable proof of progress  Monitoring can increase accountability  Provides a sense of accomplishment  find a gym near you Find your nearest Anytime Fitness to learn more, get a free trial pass, or schedule a fitness consultation.  Kickstart Your Training   training options designed to help you reach your goals.   PART OF YOUR HOLISTIC PLAN Our approach is designed to provide you with the personalized support you need to be successful, period. As a member you’ll get:   A plan tailored to your goals with daily training, nutrition and recovery activities delivered via the Anytime Fitness App  A wide variety of digital workouts, including access to Apple Fitness+, that you can do at home or in the gym  Personalized support, encouragement, and accountability from expert Coaches and a welcoming community   DYNAMIC GROUP TRAINING OPTIONS Coach-led, group workout sessions* are designed to build strength and endurance while tapping into the motivating energy of a group setting to maximize your results. Group training programs include:   Dynamic warmups to prepare for each session  Training session variety within our large group and small group workout formats  Effective recovery time to stretch and cooldown  Multiple day and time options each week  Motivation and accountability from AF Coaches and fellow members   CUSTOMIZED 1:1 PERSONAL TRAINING PROGRAMS With our one-on-one personal training* offerings, you and your AF Coach will create a customized workout program with your specific goals and health considerations in mind. Individualized personal training includes:   Dynamic warmups based on training plan  Personalized one-on-one sessions focused on your needs and goals  Training, nutrition, and recovery guidance and support  Multiple day and time options each week  Motivation and accountability from a dedicated fitness Coach Disclaimer: Equipment, services, and amenities vary based on location. Additional fees for access to certain amenities and services may apply. See gym for details. EXPERTISE DRIVEN BY SCIENCE, EXPERIENCE … AND SWEAT Anytime Fitness proudly partners with the National Academy of Sports Medicine (NASM) to regularly review our AF Training programming, validating its science-based approach, effectiveness, and safety.   improving the health and wellbeing of the world, one member at a time Member success stories are the heart and soul of the Anytime Fitness community. From weight-loss milestones to overcoming obstacles, our members’ inspiring stories illustrate the lasting impact that a supportive environment, science-based training, and unwavering determination can have on your fitness journey.   Luis Building confidence & community  Luis has lost 75 pounds since joining AF, but his transformation was more than physical.  Molly Overcoming Gym Anxiety  Molly wasn’t sure the gym was right for her, but she gained a renewed sense of confidence.  James Triumphing Over Cancer  James has endured more than many will in a lifetime, and it’s shaped him into the man he is today.  Luis Building confidence & community  Luis has lost 75 pounds since joining AF, but his transformation was more than physical.  Molly Overcoming Gym Anxiety  Molly wasn’t sure the gym was right for her, but she gained a renewed sense of confidence.  James Triumphing Over Cancer  James has endured more than many will in a lifetime, and it’s shaped him into the man he is today. learn more to find the af training path that is right for you learn more to find the af training path that is right for you Free Fitness Consultation Offer available to new customers only. Valid only at participating Anytime Fitness clubs. Good for one (1) fitness consultation for 1 person, during staffed hours at the identified Anytime Fitness club location. Appointment required. Not valid at other locations. Liability waiver required and other terms and conditions apply. May be subject to eligibility or availability restrictions. No cash value, not valid with any other offer, no refunds or credits. Each Anytime Fitness location is independently owned and operated. Void where prohibited."}
