{"title":"Significant Cyber Incidents | Strategic Technologies Program | CSIS","author":null,"date":null,"main_content":"October 2025: The ransomware group Medusa claimed responsibility for a data breach involving SimonMed Imaging, during which hackers exfiltrated data belonging to approximately 1.2 million patients. The attackers reportedly demanded $1 million to delete the stolen files, and SimonMed has brought in cybersecurity experts to investigate. \n\nOctober 2025: Hackers uploaded 23 million customer records belonging to several companies, including Vietnam Airlines, on data-trading forums. Vietnam Airlines confirmed this data-breach incident, which exposed customers’ personal information linked to its technology partner’s online customer service platform.\n\nOctober 2025: Canadian Centre for Cyber Security warned that hacktivist groups have exploited industrial control systems at critical infrastructure sites. Attackers were observed leveraging weak security configurations, default credentials, and unpatched internet-facing PLCs and HMIs. \n\nOctober 2025: North Korean Lazarus APT group targeted three European defense sector companies to steal sensitive information on drone components and manufacturing processes. The attackers used a social engineering campaign, sending fake job offers with a remote access trojan. The targeted companies supply military equipment to Ukraine and possess specialized knowledge on advanced single-rotor drones that North Korea is actively developing.\n\nOctober 2025:  Russian cybercrime group Lynx breached Dodd Group, a UK Ministry of Defence contractor, stealing approximately 4TB of data, including sensitive files on eight RAF and Royal Navy bases. The attackers deployed ransomware and exfiltrated visitor logs, staff details, security guidance, and construction records and began leaking roughly 1,000 documents. The UK MoD has launched an investigation into this breach. \n\nSeptember 2025: A ransomware gang calling itself Radiant breached Kido International, a childcare provider operating 18 London nurseries, and exfiltrated photographs and personal data of more than 8,000 children. The attackers used phishing emails to obtain remote-desktop access and deploy encryption tools. The group later claimed to delete the data after public backlash.\n\nSeptember 2025: A ransomware attack on Collins Aerospace’s vMUSE airport operations platform disrupted check-in and boarding systems at Heathrow, Brussels, and Berlin airports. The malware encrypted backend servers, forcing airlines to revert to manual check-in and causing hundreds of flight delays. European aviation authorities have not attributed the incident.\n\nSeptember 2025: Hackers infiltrated servers belonging to luxury conglomerate Kering, stealing personal data from clients of Gucci, Balenciaga, and Alexander McQueen. The attackers used credential-stuffing tools and web-exfiltration scripts. The criminal group ShinyHunters claimed responsibility, though Kering did not confirm their involvement.\n\nSeptember 2025: Threat actors exploited stolen OAuth 2.0 refresh tokens from Salesloft and Drift integrations to exfiltrate Salesforce data from hundreds of corporate environments worldwide. The financially motivated campaign affected firms across the finance, technology, and logistics sectors, with some estimates suggesting over a billion records accessed.\n\nSeptember 2025: Cybercriminals attacked Jaguar Land Rover’s IT network with ransomware that disrupted manufacturing and retail operations across multiple UK plants. The attack is estimated to cost £1.9B and be the most economically damaging cyber event in UK history. A group calling itself Scattered Lapsus$ Hunters claimed responsibility, though UK authorities have not confirmed attribution.\n\nAugust 2025: The U.S., Five Eyes partners, and other allies accused three Chinese firms of aiding Beijing’s intelligence services in cyber espionage. The coalition linked them to sweeping breaches of telecommunications and government data worldwide. \n\nAugust 2025: Interpol’s “Operation Serengeti 2.0” led to the arrest of more than 1,200 alleged cybercriminals across 18 African countries and the UK. Authorities disrupted tens of thousands of scams and recovered nearly $100 million. \n\nAugust 2025: Nigeria deported more than 100 convicted foreign nationals, including 50 Chinese citizens, in a crackdown on one of the country’s largest foreign-led cybercrime syndicates. \n\nAugust 2025: Russian hacktivists disrupted operations at a Polish hydropower plant in Tczew, marking a more destructive follow-up to a May attack on the same facility. \n\nAugust 2025: Norway formally attributed an April cyberattack on a dam in Bremanger to Russia. Authorities said hackers briefly seized control of the facility to sow fear and chaos, though no damage occurred. \n\nAugust 2025: An attack on Canada’s House of Commons exposed employee data and details of government-managed devices. Authorities said the breach exploited a Microsoft vulnerability and warned the information could be used in scams or impersonation attempts. \n\nAugust 2025: Hackers exploited flaws in widely used application delivery and remote access systems to breach several critical infrastructure providers in the Netherlands. Dutch authorities warned that the vulnerabilities could affect thousands of systems worldwide. \n\nAugust 2025: Several Caribbean governments part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands were hit by cyberattacks, including a ransomware attack on Curaçao’s Tax and Customs Administration. The Dutch Court of Justice was also affected.\n\nJuly 2025: Chinese state-linked hackers exploited critical flaws in Microsoft’s SharePoint software, breaching U.S. government agencies, critical infrastructure, and global companies. \n\nJuly 2025: Singapore reported ongoing cyberattacks on critical infrastructure by a China-linked espionage group. Units in Singapore’s military were called in to combat the attacks. \n\nJuly 2025: Europol disrupted a pro-Russian hacktivist group behind DDoS attacks on Ukraine and NATO countries. The operation led to arrests in France and Spain, as well as warrants for six Russian nationals. \n\nJuly 2025: A China-linked cyber espionage group targeted an African IT provider servicing government clients, marking a rare expansion into the region. \n\nJune 2025: OpenAI banned state-linked accounts from Russia, China, and other countries for abusing ChatGPT in cyber operations. The actors used the tool for malware development, espionage research, social engineering, and covert influence campaigns. \n\nJune 2025: Ukraine’s military intelligence agency claimed it breached Russian aerospace firm Tupolev, stealing classified data on strategic bomber programs. \n\nJune 2025: Researchers uncovered the largest known data leak in China, exposing over 4 billion user records from platforms including WeChat and Alipay. The data trove appeared designed for mass profiling and surveillance, though its origin remains unknown. \n\nJune 2025: An Iranian-linked espionage group maintained persistent access to Kurdish and Iraqi government networks for eight years. The hackers used custom implants and backdoors to spy on officials and sustain strategic footholds in both regions. \n\nMay 2025: The Czech Republic attributed a cyberattack targeting its Foreign Ministry to China. While the incident occurred earlier, the attribution was made public this May. \n\nMay 2025: Russian hackers conducted an espionage campaign against educational, government, and research-related entities in Tajikistan. The hackers reportedly used an HTML application to implant file-based malware. \n\nMay 2025: A Turkish espionage group exploited a vulnerability in a messaging app to spy on Kurdish military forces operating in Iraq over the last year. The hackers used a zero-day bug in the applications to gain access to Kurdish military messages.\n\nMay 2025: The U.K.’s National Cyber Security Center named China as the dominant threat to national cybersecurity after a series of hacks and breaches involving British government departments and critical infrastructure, including alleged attacks against the Electoral Commission and Members of Parliament.\n\nMay 2025: The United States, Britain, France, Germany, and other allies issued an advisory warning of a Russian cyber campaign targeting the delivery of defense support to Ukraine and other NATO defense and tech sectors.\n\nApril 2025: Algeria-linked hackers launched a cyberattack against Morocco's National Social Security Fund, leaking sensitive data online. The breach reportedly exposed personal and financial details for nearly two million people from roughly 500,000 companies. \n\nApril 2025: Hackers spied on the emails of roughly 103 U.S. bank regulators at the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency for over a year, ending in early 2025. The attackers gained access via a compromised administrator account, accessing roughly 150,000 emails containing highly sensitive financial institution data. The hacks have yet to be attributed. \n\nApril 2025: U.S. Cyber Command discovered Chinese malware implanted on partner networks in multiple Latin American nations during a series of 'hunt forward' operations, according to Lt. Gen. Dan Caine, Trump’s pick for chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.\n\nApril 2025: North Korean cyber spies are expanding their infiltration operations to target European defense and government organizations. Hackers posed as remote workers to steal data, commit espionage, and generate revenue, increasingly using extortion against former employers after gaining access.\n\nMarch 2025: Iranian hackers conducted ongoing cyber espionage campaigns against government entities in Iraq and telecommunications in Yemen. Attackers used custom backdoors and novel command-and-control methods like hijacked emails and backdoors to gain access.\n\nMarch 2025: A network of front companies linked to a Chinese tech firm targeted recently laid-off U.S. federal workers using recruitment ads on job sites. The operation utilized fake consulting firms with non-functional contact details and addresses, mirroring methods identified by the FBI as potential foreign intelligence recruitment tactics.\n\nFebruary 2025: North Korean hackers conducted an espionage campaign against South Korean entities to exfiltrate system reconnaissance data from potentially thousands of machines. The attackers used PowerShell scripts and Dropbox for command and control and data exfiltration, demonstrating improved operational security by the attackers. \n\nFebruary 2025: Chinese cyber espionage operations surged by 150% overall in 2024, with attacks against financial, media, manufacturing, and industrial sectors rising up to 300%, according to new reporting.\n\nFebruary 2025: Chinese hackers conducted ongoing cyber espionage campaigns targeting government, manufacturing, telecom, and media sectors in Southeast Asia, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. The attackers deployed a backdoor and embedded themselves in cloud services like Dropbox for command and control to evade detection. \n\nFebruary 2025: Chinese reporting claims that foreign APTs launched over 1,300 cyberattacks targeting 14 key sectors in China during 2024. Government agencies, education, research, defense, and transportation sectors were most affected, with attackers aiming to steal sensitive data and potentially conduct strategic sabotage. \n\nFebruary 2025: North Korean hackers stole $1.5 billion in Ethereum from the Dubai-based exchange ByBit. Attackers exploited a vulnerability in third-party wallet software during a fund transfer, laundering at least $160 million within the first 48 hours of the attack. It is the largest cryptocurrency heist to date. \n\nFebruary 2025: Chinese cyber actors conducted a coordinated disinformation campaign on WeChat against Canadian Liberal leadership candidate Chrystia Freeland, according to Canada's Security and Intelligence Threats to Elections Task Force. The operation involved numerous accounts spreading disparaging content linked to the PRC and reached 2 to 3 million global WeChat users. \n\nJanuary 2025: Suspected Russian hackers executed spearphishing attacks against Kazakh diplomatic entities. Attackers imbedded malicious code within diplomatic documents, including one allegedly outlining an agreement between Germany and several Central Asian countries, for cyber espionage purposes. \n\nJanuary 2025: A pro-Russian hacking group claimed responsibility for a cyberattack targeting Italian government websites, including ministries, public services, and transportation platforms in cities like Rome and Palermo. The attack was reportedly a response to Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni's meeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, where she reiterated support for Ukraine. \n\nJanuary 2025: Russian cyberattacks on Ukraine surged by nearly 70% in 2024, with 4,315 incidents targeting critical infrastructure, including government services, the energy sector, and defense-related entities. Ukraine’s cybersecurity agency reported that attackers aimed to steal sensitive data and disrupt operations, with tactics such as malware distribution, phishing, and account compromises. \n\nJanuary 2025: Cyberattacks on Taiwan by Chinese groups doubled to 2.4 million daily attempts in 2024, primarily targeting government systems and telecommunications firms, according to Taiwan's National Security Bureau. Attackers aimed to steal sensitive data and disrupt critical infrastructure, with successful attacks rising by 20% compared to 2023. \n\nDecember 2024: Chinese hackers breached a third-party vendor for the U.S. Treasury Department to gain access to over 3,000 unclassified files. The documents related to principles such as Secretary Janet Yellen, Deputy Secretary Wally Adeyemo, and Acting Under Secretary Brad Smith, in addition to the Committee of Foreign Investment in the United States and the Office of Foreign Assets Control.\n\nDecember 2024: Russian hackers infiltrated a Pakistani hacking group, exploiting their infrastructure to access sensitive information stolen from South Asian government and military targets. \n\nDecember 2024: Cyberattacks on Indian government entities increased by 138% between 2019 and 2023, rising from 85,797 incidents in 2019 to 204,844 in 2023, according to the Indian Ministry of Electronics and IT. \n\nDecember 2024: Russian hackers targeted Romania’s election systems with over 85,000 cyberattacks and leaked credentials on Russian hacker forums. The attacks came just before Romania's presidential vote, with attacks persisting through election day.\n\nDecember 2024: Russian hackers launched a phishing campaign targeting Ukrainian armed forces and defense enterprises. The attackers deployed remote access tools to infiltrate military systems and steal credentials from platforms like Telegram and local networks. \n\nDecember 2024: China's national cybersecurity agency accused a U.S. intelligence agency of conducting cyberattacks on two Chinese tech firms since May 2023, targeting an advanced materials research unit and a high-tech company specializing in intelligent energy and digital information. The attacks reportedly led to the theft of substantial trade secrets, coinciding with heightened U.S.-China tensions over export controls on semiconductors and AI technologies.\n\nNovember 2024: The United Kingdom’s National Cyber Security Center found a three-fold increase in the most significant cyberattacks compared to a year ago. NCSC provided support for 430 cyberattacks, 89 of which were “nationally significant,” and listed China, Russia, Iran, and North Korea as “real and enduring threats.”\n\nNovember 2024: Chinese hackers, dubbed Salt Typhoon, breached at least eight U.S. telecommunications providers, as well as telecom providers in more than twenty other countries, as part of a wide-ranging espionage and intelligence collection campaign. Researchers believe the attack began up to two years ago and still infects telecom networks. Attackers stole customer call data and law enforcement surveillance request data and compromised private communications of individuals involved in government or political activity.\n\nNovember 2024: Chinese spies planted a chip in a former U.S. three-stars general’s conference name tag to track his every move during his time serving in the Indo-Pacific.\n\nNovember 2024: Iranian hackers have been targeting aerospace, defense, and aviation industries in Israel, the UAE, Turkey, India, and Albania, according to Israeli reports. Hackers pose as recruiters on LinkedIn and distribute malware to victims through fake lucrative job offers to spy on targets and steal sensitive data starting in 2023. The malware and tactics are similar to those of a North Korean hacking group that targeted cryptocurrency exchange-traded funds.\n\nNovember 2024: South Korean officials accused pro-Russian hackers of attacking civilian and government website, following South Korea’s decision to monitor North Korean troops in Ukraine. Several pro-Russian hacktivists have claimed the attacks, but no final attribution has been made.\n\nOctober 2024:  Russian agents sent emails about bomb threats to nearly 60 Ukrainian embassies worldwide, as well as media outlets and state agencies.\n\nOctober 2024:  Iranian agents are increasing their espionage efforts against government agencies in the United Arab Emirates. Attackers deployed a backdoor to exfiltrate sensitive credentials\n\nOctober 2024:  Russian cybercriminals sent information-stealing malware to an unknown number of Ukrainian draft-age men to undermine Ukraine's military recruitment efforts.\n\nOctober 2024:  Australia introduced its first national cyber legislation, the Cyber Security Bill 2024. It is the country’s first attempt to codify security standards for ransomware reporting and smart devices and proposes a framework for managing the impact of significant cyber incidents.\n\nOctober 2024:  Chinese hackers have breached at least twenty Canadian government networks over the last four years, according to the Canadian Cantre for Cyber Security (CCCS). CCCS reported that the objectives of the breach include espionage, IP theft, malign influence, and translational repression. The statement comes after CCCS revealed a Chinese threat actor was conducting surveillance scans of Canadian parliamentary and political networks.\n\nOctober 2024:  Russian hackers sent compromised emails disguised to appear as if they were sent from Amazon or Microsoft to infiltrate Ukrainian state and military devices and steal credentials from victims. The scope of the campaign is unknown.\n\nOctober 2024:  Chinese hackers hacked cellphones used by senior members of the Trump-Vance presidential campaign, including phones used by former President Donald Trump and JD Vance as well as people affiliated with the Harris-Walz campaign. It is unclear what data may have been accessed. The FBI is investigating the incident.\n\nOctober 2024:  New reporting reveals Chinese-backed hackers have been conducting large data exfiltration operations against Thailand's government institutions. Hackers first gained access in 2023 through a brute force attack on a local area network before gaining privileged access and beginning data exfiltration.\n\nOctober 2024:  Ukrainian hackers attacked Russia’s state media company and electronic court document management system on Putin's birthday. The attack prevented Russian courts from filing lawsuits or viewing court hearing schedules for several days, and it interrupted all streaming services of prominent TV and radio stations in Russia.\n\nSeptember 2024: Chinese hackers have been conducting an ongoing cyber espionage campaign against Middle Eastern government entities that published human rights studies related to the Israel-Hamas War. The campaign was discovered in June 2024 after researchers discovered malware implants that were designed to ultimately deliver a malware implant.\n\nSeptember 2024: Russian cyber spies conducted an espionage campaign against Mongolia's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cabinet websites. The spies added malicious code to the websites to exfiltrate a victim’s browser cookies. Attackers used the same exploits as those sold by commercial surveillance vendors such as NSO Group and Intellexa, but it is unknown if these companies knowingly sold their exploits to the Russian government, according to reports.\n\nAugust 2024: U.S. government officials blamed Iranian hackers for breaking into Donald Trump’s presidential campaign. Hackers also attempted to break into the then-Biden-Harris campaign, then offered to share the stolen Trump campaign documents with the campaign, but were ignored. The attack comes as U.S. officials raise warnings about potential foreign interference in the upcoming U.S. election from Russia, China, Iran, and North Korea. \n\nAugust 2024: The United Nations unanimously approved its first treaty on cybercrime. The treaty will face a General Assembly vote in the fall.\n\nAugust 2024: Russian cyber criminals are deploying malware against diplomats through a used-car email scheme. The attackers embed a file supposedly with images of a used car in their email, but the file contains backdoor malware that established persistent access for attackers to engage in for follow-on data theft, reconnaissance, and surveillance activities. \n\nJuly 2024:  South Korea’s military is investigating the leak of highly sensitive information on Seoul’s espionage activities and issued an arrest warrant for a suspect. The information included personal data on Seoul’s non-official agents conducting undercover espionage overseas. The information was transferred to the suspect’s personal laptop before being leaked. Lawmakers said the leak was first discovered in June and was not the result of a hack.\n\nJuly 2024:  A faulty software update for Microsoft Windows issues by cybersecurity firm CrowdStrike caused a global IT outage that disrupted airline and hospital operations. It affected approximately 8.5 million machines and cost Fortune 500 companies $5.4 billion, according to reports. \n\nJuly 2024: Germany accused China of directing a “serious” cyberattack against Germany’s Federal Office for Cartography and Geodesy (BKG), which conducts precision mapping of the entire country, in 2021. The findings come at the end of a three-year investigation into the incident and as Germany plans a rip-and-replace project for Chinese telecommunications infrastructure in Germany over security concerns.\n\nJuly 2024: Australia, the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, South Korea, and New Zealand issued a warning about malicious Chinese state-sponsored cyber activity in their networks. It marked the first time South Korea and Japan joined with Australia to attribute malicious cyber actions to China, and the first time Australia led a cyber attribution effort against China.\n\nJune 2024: Japan’s space agency has suffered a series of cyberattacks since last year, according to the Japanese government. Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary claimed the targeted networks did not contain sensitive rocket or satellite information, and that the attackers were “from outside of Japan.”\n\nJune 2024: Hackers deployed ransomware in Indonesia’s national data center which briefly disrupted a variety of immigration services, including immigration document management services at airports, and deleted information that was not backed up. The attack prompted Indonesia’s Director General of Informatics Applications at the Communications and Informatics Ministry to resign and initiated and a nation-wide audit of Indonesia’s national data centers.\n\nJune 2024: Belarusian state-sponsored hackers launched an espionage campaign Ukraine’s Ministry of Defense and a Ukrainian military base. The attackers sent targets phishing emails with drone image files a malicious Microsoft Excel spreadsheet.\n\nJune 2024: Germany’s main opposition party, the Christian Democratic Union, suffered a cyberattack just ahead of European Parliamentary elections. Germany’s interior ministry did not disclose the extend of the attack or the suspected perpetrator, but acknowledged it was “serious.” The attack occurred shortly after Germany’s Social Democratic party was attacked by Russian hackers. The party briefly took down parts of its IT service as a precaution.\n\nJune 2024: The government of Palau accused Chinese hackers of stealing over 20,000 government documents shortly after the island nation signed a 20-year economic and security deal with the United States in March 2024. Palau’s president said this was the first major attack on government records that the island has seen.\n\nMay 2024: A new report from Canada’s Communications Security Establishment detected Chinese espionage activity against eight members of Parliament and one senator starting in 2021. The spies likely attempted to obtain information from the targets’ personal and work devices but were unsuccessful, according to the report. The Parliamentarians were members of Canada’s Inter-Parliamentary Alliance on China, which focuses on how democracies should approach PRC-related issues. The report also mentioned this activity was similar to activity against 19 European countries dating back to 2020. \n\nMay 2024: Recent media reports stated Pakistani cyber spies deployed malware against India’s government, aerospace, and defense sectors. The group sent phishing emails masquerading as Indian defense officials to infect their targets' devices and access sensitive information. The attack’s extent is unknown.\n\nMay 2024:  Chinese hackers hit Britain’s Ministry of Defense with a cyberattack that exposed sensitive information on every troop apart from the UK’s special forces. The attackers targeted a third-party contractor to access names and bank details of current and former members of the armed forces. The UK Minister of Defence stopped short of publicly naming China as the culprit. \n\nMay 2024: Poland and the Czech Republic accused Russian cyber spies of targeting government and infrastructure networks. Both countries claim the attacks occurred around the same time Russian hackers attacked the German government. Hackers gained access by exploited a Microsoft Outlook vulnerability, and the extent of the compromised data is currently unknown.\n\nMay 2024: Germany accused Russian hackers of breaking into the emails of Germany’s Social Democrats, the leading party in its governing coalition, and recalled its ambassador from the country. The campaign started in March 2022 when hackers exploited vulnerabilities in Microsoft Outlook to target the party’s executive committee, as well as German defense and aerospace companies.\n\nApril 2024: Ukraine’s military intelligence agency launch a cyberattack against Russia’s ruling United Russia party the same day Russia hosted its Victory Dictation. Attackers launched a barrage of DDoS attacks against United Russia’s servers, websites, and domains to make them inaccessible. United Russia publicly admitted to suffering from a “massive” DDoS attack. \n\nApril 2024: Belarusian pro-democracy hackers, known as the Belarusian Cyber-Partisans, crippled the website of Belarus’ main security service agency for over two months. The hackers also published a list of website administrators, its database, and server logs on its Telegram channel. This is the latest in a series of attacks against the Belarusian government by the group. \n\nApril 2024: Police in the United Kingdom are investigating a series of “honey trap” attacks against British MPs. Attackers sent explicit messages allegedly of themselves over WhatsApp to their target for the apparent purpose of acquiring compromising images of the target. The perpetrators of these attacks are currently unknown. \n\nApril 2024: Germany plans to create a cyber military branch as part of its military restructuring. Germany's defense minister, Boris Pistorius, stated the new Cyber and Information Domain Service (CIR) would help deter increasing cyber aggression from Russia against Germany and its NATO allies. \n\nApril 2024: Hackers attacked El Salvador’s national cryptocurrency wallet Chivo and exposed over 144 GB of sensitive personal information of millions of Salvadorians. The hackers also released Chivo’s source code publicly. The Salvadorian government has not released an official public statement on the attack. \n\nMarch 2024: A “massive” cyberattack disrupted the African Union’s systems for over a week and infected over 200 user devices, according to the deputy chair of the AU Commission. The cause of the cyberattack is unknown.\n\nMarch 2024: Iranian hackers compromised an IT network connected to an Israeli nuclear facility. Hackers leaked sensitive facility documents but did not compromise its operational technology network. \n\nMarch 2024: Russian hackers launched phishing attacks against German political parties. Hackers concealed ransomware in a fake dinner invitation from Germany’s Christian Democratic Union to install a backdoor in their victim’s computer.\n\nMarch 2024: India’s government and energy sectors was breached in a cyber espionage campaign. Hackers sent a malicious file disguised as a letter from India’s Royal Air Force to offices responsible for India’s electronic communications, IT governance, and national defense. Researchers have not yet determined who conducted the attack. \n\nMarch 2024: A U.S. Department of Justice indictment revealed Chinese hackers targeted several EU members of the Inter-Parliamentary Alliance on China and Italian MPs. The attack was designed to detect IP addresses and the targets’ locations.\n\nMarch 2024: Canada pulled its financial intelligence system FINTRAC offline after a “cyber incident” by a currently unidentified attacker. FINTRAC claims the attack does not involve its intelligence or classified systems but declined to disclose further details of the incident.\n\nMarch 2024: Russian hackers leaked an intercepted conversation between German military officials about the country’s support for Ukraine. In the call, the head of Germany's Air Force discussed the possibility of supplying Taurus missiles to Ukraine and commented on German Chancellor Olaf Scholz's hesitance to send the missiles. Germany announced it would investigate the incident and believes the leak was intended to inflame divisions in Germany.\n\nMarch 2024: Switzerland’s National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) confirmed that leaded data from a May 2023 breach included 65,000 documents from the Federal Administration. The documents contained sensitive personal data, classified information, and passwords, and were from Switzerland’s federal police, judiciary, and migration offices. Swiss officials had originally assessed that breach only impacted non-government documents. \n\nMarch 2024: Microsoft claims Russian hackers stole its source code and are continuing to gain unauthorized access to its internal systems as part of their November 2023 campaign to spy on senior Microsoft executives. Microsoft also said attackers increased the volume of their “password spray” attacks by nearly tenfold between January and February 2024. The company did not disclose further details on the source code access or breached internal systems. \n\nFebruary 2024: Russian hackers launched an espionage campaign against the embassies of Georgia, Poland, Ukraine, and Iran beginning in 2023. Hackers exploited a bug in a webmail server to inject malware into servers at the embassies and collect information on European and Iranian political and military activities. \n\nFebruary 2024: Roughly 190 megabytes of data from a Chinese cybersecurity company were exposed online, revealing the company’s espionage efforts on the governments of the United Kingdom, India, Indonesia, and Taiwan. The leak’s source is unknown.\n\nFebruary 2024: The Royal Canadian Mounted Police suffered a cyberattack against its networks. The RCMP stated it is investigating this “alarming” incident and does not believe it had an impact on its operations or the safety and security of Canadians. It is so far unclear who is behind the attack and if it was a data breach or security incident. \n\nFebruary 2024: U.S. officials hacked an Iranian military spy ship that was sharing intelligence with Houthi rebels who have been firing on ships in the Red Sea. According to U.S. officials, the attack was part of the Biden administration’s response to an Iranian drone stroke that killed three U.S. soldiers in Jordan.\n\nFebruary 2024: A data breach of French health insurance companies in January 2024 affected 33 million French citizens, or nearly half the country’s population. The attack compromised sensitive birth date, social security, and marital status information, but not medical history. The French data protection agency opened an investigation to determine if the companies complied with cybersecurity guidelines under the EU’s General Data Protection Regulations. \n\nFebruary 2024: Chinese spies places malware in a Dutch military network in 2023. The network was not connected to the defense ministry’s main network, which reduced damage. This is the first time the Netherlands has publicly accused China of cyber espionage.\n\nJanuary 2024: Hackers breached Global Affairs Canada’s secure VPN in December 2023, allowing hackers to access sensitive personal information of users and employees. It affected staff emails, calendars, and contacts. It’s unclear if classified information was compromised or lost. The hacker's identity is currently unknown. \n\nJanuary 2024: Russian hackers launched a ransomware attack against Sweden’s only digital service provider for government services. The attack affected operations for 120 government offices and came as Sweden prepared to join NATO. Sweden expects disruptions to continue for several weeks. \n\nJanuary 2024: Microsoft announced that Russian hackers broke into its corporate systems. Hackers used a “password spray attack” to steal emails and documents from accounts of Microsoft’s senior leadership, cybersecurity, and legal teams back in November 2023.\n\nJanuary 2024: Russian hackers attacked 65 Australian government departments and agencies and stole 2.5 million documents in Australia’s largest government cyberattack. Hackers infiltrated an Australian law firm that worked with the government to gain access to government files. \n\nJanuary 2024: The Australian government identified and sanctioned Aleksandr Ermakov as the Russian hacker who breached Medibank, the country’s largest private health insurance provider, in 2022. He stole information from 9.7 million current and former Medibank customers. This is the first time Australia has issued cyber sanctions against an individual since the framework was established in 2021. The U.S. and UK also sanctioned Ermakov. \n\nJanuary 2024: Russian agents hacked residential webcams in Kyiv to gather information on the city’s air defense systems before launching a missile attack on Kyiv. Hackers changed the cameras’ angles to gather information on nearby critical infrastructure facilities and stream the footage on YouTube. Ukraine has since ordered webcam operators in the country to stop live broadcasts. \n\nDecember 2023:  Israeli-linked hackers disrupted approximately 70% of gas stations in Iran. Hackers claimed the attack was in retaliation for aggressive actions by Iran and its proxies in the region. Pumps restored operation the next day, but payment issues continued for several days. \n\nDecember 2023: Ukrainian state hackers crippled Russia’s largest water utility plant by encrypting over 6,000 computers and deleting over 50 TB of data. Hackers claimed their attack was in retaliation for the Russian Kyivstar cyberattack.\n\nDecember 2023: Russian hackers hit Ukraine’s largest mobile phone provider, Kyivstar, disabling access to its 24 million customers in Ukraine. Hackers claim to have destroyed more than 10,000 computers and 4,000 servers, including cloud storage and backup systems. The attack began hours before President Zelenskyy met with President Biden in Washington D.C.\n\nDecember 2023: Ukraine’s military intelligence service (the GRU) claims to have disabled Russia’s tax service in a cyberattack. According to the GRU, the attack destroyed the system’s configuration files, databases, and their backups, paralyzing Russia’s tax service.\n\nNovember 2023: Suspected Chinese hackers launched an espionage campaign against Uzbekistan and the Republic of Korea. Hackers use phishing campaigns to gain access to their target’s systems and decrypt their information. \n\nNovember 2023: Chinese-linked hackers attacked Japan’s space agency during summer 2023 and compromised the organization’s directory. The agency shut down parts of its network to investigate the breach’s scope, but claims it did not compromise critical rocket and satellite operations information.\n\nNovember 2023: Chinese hackers compromised Philippine government networks. Beginning in August 2023, hackers used phishing emails to imbed malicious code into their target’s systems to establish command-and-control and spy on their target’s activities.\n\nNovember 2023: Trinidad and Tobago’s Prime Minister Dr. Keith Rowley declared the latest ransomware attack against the country’s telecommunications service to be a “national security threat.” Hackers stole an estimated six gigabytes of data, including email addresses, national ID numbers, and phone numbers.  \n\nNovember 2023: Denmark suffered its largest cyberattack on record when Russian hackers hit twenty-two Danish power companies. The attack began in May 2023 and appeared to be aimed at gaining comprehensive access to Denmark’s decentralized power grid. Hackers exploited a critical command injection flaw and continued to exploit unpatched systems to maintain access.\n\nNovember 2023: Chinese cybercriminals targeted at least 24 Cambodian government networks, including the National Defense, Election Oversight, Human Rights, National Treasury, Finance, Commerce, Politics, Natural Resources and Telecommunications agencies. Hackers disguised themselves as cloud storage services to mask their data exfiltration. Initial research indicates the attack is part of a broader Chinese espionage campaign. \n\nOctober 2023: Hacktivists stole 3,000 documents from NATO, the second time in three months that hacktivists have breached NATO’s cybersecurity defenses. Hackers described themselves as “gay furry hackers” and announced their attack was retaliation against NATO countries’ human rights abuses. NATO alleges the attack did not impact NATO missions, operations, or military deployments.  \n\nOctober 2023:  Researchers discovered what appears to be a state-sponsored software tool designed for espionage purposes and used against ASEAN governments and organizations. \n\nOctober 2023:  Pro-Hamas and pro-Israeli hacktivists have launched multiple cyberattacks against Israeli government sites and Hamas web pages in the aftermath of Hamas’ attacks on Israel on October 7th. Russian and Iranian hacktivists also targeted Israeli government sites, and Indian hacktivists have attacked Hamas websites in support of Israel.  \n\nOctober 2023: Vietnamese hackers attempted to install spyware on the phones of journalists, United Nations officials and the chairs of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. The spyware was designed to siphon calls and texts from infected phones, and the unsuccessful deployment comes while Vietnamese and American diplomats were negotiating an agreement to counter China’s growing influence in the region.   \n\nOctober 2023:  New reporting reveals Chinese hackers have been targeting Guyana government agencies with phishing emails to exfiltrate sensitive information since February 2023.  \n\nOctober 2023: North Korean hackers sent malware phishing emails to employees of South Korea’s shipbuilding sector. South Korea’s National Intelligence Service suggested that the attacks were intended to gather key naval intelligence that could help North Korea build larger ships. \n\nSeptember 2023: Indian hacktivists targeted Canada’s military and Parliament websites with DDoS attacks that slowed system operations for several hours. Hacktivists referenced Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s public accusation against India of killing Sikh independence activist Hardeep Singh Nijjar as motivation for the hack. \n\nSeptember 2023: Iranian hackers launched a cyberattack against Israel’s railroad network. The hackers used a phishing campaign to target the network’s electrical infrastructure. Brazilian and UAE companies were also reportedly targeted in the same attack. \n\nSeptember 2023: U.S. and Japanese officials warn that Chinese state-sponsored hackers placed modifying software inside routers to target government industries and companies located in both countries. The hackers use firmware implants to stay hidden and move around in their target’s networks. China has denied the allegations. \n\nSeptember 2023: A massive cyberattack hit Bermuda’s Department of Planning and other government services. The country’s hospitals, transportation, and education centers remained functional, but other services were down for several weeks. Bermuda announced that it is investigating the attack and declined to state if any sensitive data was compromised.  \n\nSeptember 2023: Cybercriminals targeted Kuwait’s Ministry of Finance with a phishing ransomware attack. Kuwait isolated the Ministry and other government systems to protect them from potential further attacks. \n\nSeptember 2023: Russian is stepping up cyberattacks against Ukrainian law enforcement agencies, specifically units collecting and analyzing evidence of Russian war crimes, according to Ukrainian officials. Russian cyberattacks have primarily targeted Ukrainian infrastructure for most of the war.  \n\nSeptember 2023: Russian forces in occupied Crimea reported a cyberattack on Crimean Internet providers. The attack happened around the same time that a Ukrainian missile strike aimed at Russian naval headquarters in the area. Ukrainian officials have yet to comment.  \n\nSeptember 2023: Russian cybercriminals breached the International Criminal Court’s IT systems amid an ongoing probe into Russian war crimes committed in Ukraine.  \n\nSeptember 2023:  A new Microsoft report indicates an increase of Chinese cyber operations in the South China Sea, as well as increased attacks against the U.S. defense industrial base and U.S. critical infrastructure. The increase comes amid rising tensions between China and the U.S. \n\nSeptember 2023: A Russian ransomware group leaked Australian federal police officers’ details on the dark web. The leak is the latest phase of a Russian attack which started in April 2023 against an Australian law firm that services several Australian government agencies.   \n\nSeptember 2023: The iPhone of a Russian journalist for the independent newspaper Meduza was infected with Pegasus spyware in Germany this year. The incident is the first known instance of the spyware being used against a prominent Russian target. The country behind the spyware placement is unknown, but Latvia, Estonia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan are all suspects given past use of Pegasus spyware or their allegiance to Russia.  \n\nSeptember 2023: Suspected Chinese hackers attacked the national power grid of an unspecified Asian country earlier this year using Chinese malware. The group corrupted a Windows application that allowed them to move laterally within their target’s systems.  \n\nSeptember 2023: A ransomware attack wiped four months of Sri Lankan government data. The country’s cloud services system didn’t have backup services available for the data from May 17 to August 26, according to reporting. Malicious actors targeted Sri Lanka’s government cloud system starting in August 2023 by sending infected links to government workers.  \n\nSeptember 2023: An Indian cybersecurity firm uncovered plans from Pakistani and Indonesian hacking groups to disrupt the G20 summit in India. The hacktivists are expected to use DDoS attacks and mass defacement in their attacks, which are presumed to be the latest development in the hacktivist battle between these nations according to the firm’s research. \n\nSeptember 2023: Russian hackers stole thousands of documents from the British Ministry of Defense and uploaded them to the dark web. The documents contained accessibility details for a nuclear base in Scotland, high-security prisons, and other national security details. Hackers acquired the documents by breaking into a British fencing developer and gaining backdoor access to Ministry files. \n\nSeptember 2023:  Russian cyber criminals accessed sensitive information from South Africa’s Department of Defense, including military contracts and personnel information. The Department reversed its previous statement denying the data leak. \n\nAugust 2023: Russian hacktivists launched DDoS attacks against Czech banks and the Czech stock exchange. The hackers cut online banking access to the banks’ clients and demanded that the institutions stop supporting Ukraine. Bank representatives claim the hacks did not threaten their clients’ finances. \n\nAugust 2023: Unnamed hackers took X, formerly known as Twitter, offline in several countries and demanded that owner Elon Musk open Starlink in Sudan. Attackers flooded the server with traffic to disable access for over 20,000 individuals in the U.S., UK, and other countries.  \n\nAugust 2023: Cybercriminals are allegedly selling a stolen dataset from China’s Ministry of State Security. The full data set purportedly includes personal identification information for roughly half a billion Chinese citizens and “classified document[s],” according to the criminals’ post about the sale. \n\nAugust 2023: Russian hacktivists launched several DDoS attacks that knocked the Polish government’s website offline, as well as the Warsaw Stock exchange and several Polish national banks. \n\nAugust 2023: Russian hacktivists disabled Poland’s rail systems by gaining access to the system’s railway frequencies and transmitted a malicious signal that halted train operations. Attackers blasted Russia’s national anthem and a speech from Putin on Russia’s military operation in Ukraine during the attack.  \n\nAugust 2023: Chinese hackers targeted a U.S. military procurement system for reconnaissance, along with several Taiwan-based organizations. Attackers targeted high-bandwidth routers to exfiltrate data and establish covert proxy networks within target systems.  \n\nAugust 2023: Ukrainian hackers claim to have broken into the email of a senior Russian politician and leaked medical and financial documents, as well as messages that allegedly connect him to money laundering and sanctions evasion plots. \n\nAugust 2023: Ecuador’s national election agency claimed that cyberattacks from India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Russia, Ukraine, Indonesia and China caused difficulties for absentee voters attempting to vote online in the latest election. The agency didn’t elaborate on the nature of the attacks. \n\nAugust 2023: Suspected North Korean hackers attempted to compromise a joint U.S.-South Korean military exercise on countering nuclear threats from North Korea. Hackers launched several spear phishing email attacks at the exercise’s war simulation center.   \n\nAugust 2023: Bangladesh shut down access to their central bank and election commission websites amid warnings of a planned cyberattack by an Indian hacking group. The shutdown was intended to prevent a cyberattack similar to a 2016 incident in Bangladesh where hackers stole nearly $1 billion, according to the central bank’s statement. \n\nAugust 2023: Belarusian hackers targeted foreign embassies in the country for nearly a decade, according to new reporting. Hackers disguised malware as Windows updates to get diplomats to download it onto their devices.  \n\nAugust 2023: Chinese hackers obtained personal and political emails of a U.S. Congressman from Nebraska. The hackers exploited the same Microsoft vulnerability that gave them access to emails from the State Department and Department of Commerce. \n\nAugust 2023: Iranian cyber spies are targeting dissidents in Germany, according to Germany’s domestic intelligence unit. The spies are using false digital personas tailored to victims to build a rapport with their targets before sending a malicious link to a credential harvesting page. \n\nAugust 2023: Ukraine’s State Security Service (SBU) claims that Russia’s GRU is attempting to deploy custom malware against Starlink satellites to collect data on Ukrainian troop movements. SBU members discovered malware on Ukrainian tablets that were captured by the Russians before being recovered by Ukrainian forces. \n\nAugust 2023: Russian hackers launched a ransomware attack against a Canadian government service provider, compromising the data of 1.4 million people in Alberta. The organization paid the ransom and claimed that very little data was lost. \n\nAugust 2023: A Canadian politician was targeted by a Chinese disinformation campaign on WeChat. The attack included false accusations about the politician’s race and political views. The Canadian government believes the attacks are retaliation against the politician's criticism of China's human rights policies.  \n\nAugust 2023:  The Canadian government accused a “highly sophisticated Chinese state-sponsored actor” of hacking a prominent Canadian federal scientific research agency.  \n\nAugust 2023: Russia’s military intelligence service attempted to hack Ukrainian Armed Forces’ combat information systems. Hackers targeted Android tablets that Ukrainian forces use for planning and orchestrating combat missions.   \n\nAugust 2023:  The United Kingdom’s Electoral Commission revealed that Russian hackers breached the commission’s network beginning in August 2021. They obtained information on tens of thousands of British citizens by accessing the commission’s email and file-sharing system.  \n\nAugust 2023: According to a new report, North Korean hackers breached computer systems at a Russian missile developer for five months in 2022. Analysts could not determine what information may have been taken or viewed. \n\nJuly 2023:  China claims that an earthquake monitoring system in Wuhan was hacked by “U.S. cybercriminals.” Chinese state media asserts that a backdoor program with the capacity to steal seismic data was inserted into the program. \n\nJuly 2023: Kenya’s eCitizen service was disrupted by pro-Russian cybercriminals for several days. Kenya’s Ministry of Information, Communications, and the Digital Economy claimed that no data was accessed or lost. \n\nJuly 2023: Russian-linked cyber hackers have targeted Ukrainian state services such as the app “Diia” using malware and phishing attacks. The primary targets are Ukrainian defense and security services. \n\nJuly 2023:  The Ministry of Justice in Trinidad and Tobago was hit with a DDoS attack that disrupted court operations across the country. The ministry reported outages beginning in late June, which are believed to be linked to this same attack. \n\nJuly 2023: New Zealand’s parliament was hit by a cyberattack from a Russian hacking group. The group said their attack was retaliation against New Zealand’s support for Ukraine, such as its assistance with training Ukrainian troops and sanctions against Russia. Heckers temporarily shut down the New Zealand Parliament, Parliamentary Counsel Office (PCO) and Legislation websites in a DDoS attack. \n\nJuly 2023: Russian hackers targeted twelve government ministries in Norway to gain access to sensitive information. The hackers exploited a vulnerability in a software platform used by the ministries.\n\nJuly 2023:  A South Korean government-affiliated institution fell victim to a phishing scandal that resulted in a loss of 175 million wons, reportedly the first phishing incident against a South Korean government public organization. \n\nJuly 2023: Chinese-linked hackers infected a Pakistani government app with malware. A state bank and telecoms provider were also targeted in the attack. \n\nJuly 2023: Chinese hackers breached the emails of several prominent U.S. government employees in the State Department and Department of Commerce through a vulnerability in Microsoft’s email systems.\n\nJuly 2023: Russian hackers targeted numerous attendees of the latest NATO Summit in Vilnius. The assailants used a malicious replica of the Ukraine World Congress website to target attendees. \n\nJuly 2023: A Polish diplomat’s advertisement to purchase a used BMW was corrupted by Russian hackers and used to target Ukrainian diplomats. The hackers copied the flyer, imbedded it with malicious software and distributed it to foreign diplomats in Kyiv.\n\nJune 2023: A group allegedly tied to the private military corporation Wagner hacked a Russian satellite telecommunications provider that services the Federal Security Service (FSB) and Russian military units. The attack comes after Wagner’s attempted rebellion against President Vladimir Putin over the war in Ukraine. \n\nJune 2023: A Pakistani-based hacker group infiltrated the Indian army and education sector in the group’s latest wave of attacks against Indian government institutions.The hack is the latest in a series of targeted attacks from this group that have intensified over the past year. \n\nJune 2023: Pro-Russian hacktivists attacked several European banking institutions, including the European Investment Bank, in retaliation against Europe’s continued support of Ukraine. The hacktivists used a DDoS attack to disrupt EIB.\n\nJune 2023: Several U.S. federal government agencies, including Department of Energy entities, were breached in a global cyberattack by Russian-linked hackers. Cybercriminalstargeted a vulnerability in software that is widely used by the agencies, according to a US cybersecurity agent.\n\nJune 2023: An Illinois hospital became the first health care facility to publicly list a ransomware attack as a primary reason for closing. The attack, which occurred in 2021,permanently crippled the facility’s finances.\n\nJune 2023: Pro-Russian hackers targeted several Swiss government websites, including those for Parliament, the federal administration, andthe Geneva airport. The DDoS attacks coincide in conjunction with preparations for Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelensky’s virtual address before the Swiss parliament.\n\nJune 2023: According to new reporting,North Korean hackers have been impersonating tech workers or employers to steal more than $3 billion since 2018. The money has reportedly beenused to fundthe country’s ballistic missiles program, according to U.S. officials.\n\nJune 2023: Ukrainian hackers claimed responsibility for an attack on a Russian telecom firm that provides critical infrastructure to the Russian banking system. The attack occurred in conjunction with Ukraine’s counteroffensive. \n\nJune 2023: Russia’s Federal Security Services (FSB) alleged that Apple worked closely with US intelligence agencies to hack thousands of iPhones belonging to Russian users and foreign diplomats. Apple denied theclaims, and the NSA declined to comment.\n\nMay 2023:  Belgium’s cyber security agency has linked China-sponsored hackers to a spearfishing attack on a prominent politician. The attack comes as European governments are increasingly willing to challenge China over cyber offences. \n\nMay 2023:  Chinese hackers breached communications networks at a U.S. outpost in Guam. The hackers used legitimate credentials, making it harder to detect them.  \n\nMay 2023:  Chinese hackers targeted Kenyan government ministries and state institutions, including the presidential office. The hacks appeared to be aimed at gaining information on debt owed to Beijing. \n\nMay 2023:  A likely Russia state group has targeted government organizations in Central Asia. The group is using previously unknown malware, and the attacks focused on document exfiltration.  \n\nMay 2023:  An unidentified group hacked targets in both Russia and Ukraine. The motive for the attacks was surveillance and data gathering, \n\nMay 2023:  Russian-linked hackivist conducted an unsuccessful cyberattack against Ukraine’s system for managing border crossings by commercial trucks through a phishing campaign \n\nApril 2023: Sudan-linked hackers conducted a DDoS attack on Israel’s Independence Day, taking the Israeli Supreme Court’s website offline for several hours. Israeli cyber authorities reported no lasting damage to network infrastructure. Hackers claimed to have also attacked several other Israeli government and media sites, but those attacks could not be confirmed. The group has been active since at least January 2023, attacking critical infrastructure in Northern Europe and is considered religiously motivated. \n\nApril 2023:  NSA cyber authorities reported evidence of Russian ransomware and supply chain attacks against Ukraine and other European countries who have provided Ukraine with humanitarian aid during the war in Ukraine. There were no indications of these attacks against U.S. networks. \n\nApril 2023: Iranian state-linked hackers targeted critical infrastructure in the U.S. and other countries in a series of attacks using a previously unseen customized dropper malware. The hacking group has been active since at least 2014, conducting social engineering and espionage operations that support the Iranian government’s interests. \n\nApril 2023: Recorded Future released a report revealing data exfiltration attacks against South Korean research and academic institutions in January 2023. The report identified Chinese-language hackers. Researchers believe that this is a hacktivist group motivated by patriotism for China. \n\nApril 2023: Researchers at Mandiant attributed a software supply chain attack on 3CX Desktop App software to North Korea-linked hackers. During its investigation, Mandiant found that this attack used a vulnerability previously injected into 3CX software. This is Mandiant’s first discovery of a software supply chain attack leveraging vulnerabilities from a previous software supply chain attack. \n\nApril 2023: Chinese hackers targeted telecommunication services providers in Africa in an espionage campaign since at least November 2022. Researchers believe the group has targeted pro-domestic human rights and pro-democracy advocates, including nation-states, since at least 2014. Using the access from the telecom providers, the group gathers information including keystrokes, browser data, records audio, and captures data from individual targets on the network. \n\nApril 2023: A Russia-linked threat group launched a DDoS attack against Canadian prime Minister Justin Trudeau, blocking access to his website for several hours. The operation’s timing coincided with the Canadian government’s meeting with Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal, suggesting that the operation was retaliation. \n\nApril 2023: North Korea-linked hackers are operating an ongoing espionage campaign targeting defense industry firms in Eastern Europe and Africa. Researchers at Kaspersky believe the hacking group shifted its focus in 2020 from financially motivated coin-mining attacks to espionage.  \n\nApril 2023: Researchers discovered Israeli spyware on the iPhones of over 5 journalists, political opposition figures, and an NGO worker. Hackers initially compromised targets using malicious calendar invitations. The hackers’ origin and motivations are unclear. \n\nApril 2023: Ukraine-linked hacktivists targeted the email of Russian GRU Unit26165’s leader, Lieutenant Colonel Sergey Alexandrovich, leaking his correspondence to a volunteer intelligence analysis group. The exfiltrated data contained Alexandrovich’s personal information, unit personnel files, and information on Russian cyberattack tools.  \n\nApril 2023: North Korean-linked hackers targeted people with expertise on North Korea policy issues in a phishing campaign. Hackers posed as journalists requesting interviews from targets, inviting them to use embedded links for scheduling and stealing their login credentials. The amount of information stolen and number of targets are unclear. \n\nMarch 2023. Russian hackers brought down the French National Assembly’s website for several hours using a DDoS attack. In a Telegram post, hackers cited the French government’s support for Ukraine as the reason for the attack.  \n\nMarch 2023. CISA and FBI reported that a U.S. federal agency was targeted by multiple attackers, including a Vietnamese espionage group, in a cyberespionage campaign between November 2022 and January 2023. Hackers used a vulnerability in the agency’s Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS) server to install malware.  \n\nMarch 2023. A Chinese cyberespionage group targeted an East Asian data protection company who serves military and government entities that lasted approximately a year.  \n\nMarch 2023: (3/24) A South  Asian  hacking group targeted firms in China’s nuclear energy industry in an espionage campaign. Researchers believe the group commonly targets the energy and government sectors of Pakistan, China, Bangladesh, and Saudi Arabia. \n\nMarch 2023. Estonian officials claim that hackers unsuccessfully targeted the country’s internet voting system during its recent parliamentary elections. Officials did not release details about the attacks or provide attribution.  \n\nMarch 2023. North Korean hackers targeted U.S.-based cybersecurity research firms in a phishing campaign. The campaign was meant to deliver malware for cyberespionage.  \n\nMarch 2023. A Chinese cyber espionage group targeted government entities in Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia, using newly developed malware optimized to evade detection.  \n\nMarch 2023. Russian hackers launched social engineering campaigns targeting U.S. and European politicians, businesspeople, and celebrities who have publicly denounced Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine. Hackers persuaded victims to participate in phone or video calls, giving misleading prompts to obtain pro-Putin or pro-Russian soundbites. They published these to discredit victims’ previous anti-Putin statements.  \n\nMarch 2023. Slovakian cybersecurity researchers discovered a new exploit from a Chinese espionage group targeting political organizations in Taiwan and Ukraine.  \n\nMarch 2023. Poland blamed Russia hackers for a DDoS attack on its official tax service website. Hackers blocked users’ access to the site for approximately an hour, but no data was leaked in the attack. A pro-Russian hacking group had earlier published a statement on Telegram about its intention to attack the Polish tax service.  \n\nFebruary 2023. Russian hackers deployed malware to steal information from Ukrainian organizations in a phishing campaign. The malware is capable of extracting account information and files, as well as taking screenshots. Researchers believe the group is a key player in Russia’s cyber campaigns against Ukraine. \n\nFebruary 2023. A pro-Russian hacking group claimed responsibility for DDoS attacks against NATO networks used to transmit sensitive data. The attack disrupted communications between NATO and airplanes providing earthquake aid to a Turkish airbase. The attack also took NATO’s sites offline temporarily.  \n\nFebruary 2023.  Polish officials reported a disinformation campaign targeting the Polish public. Targets received anti-Ukrainian refugee disinformation via email. Officials claimed these activities may be related to Russia-linked hackers.  \n\nFebruary 2023. A North Korean hacking group conducted an espionage campaign between August and November 2022. Hackers targeted medical research, healthcare, defense, energy, chemical engineering and a research university, exfiltrating over 100MB of data from each victim while remaining undetected. The group is linked to the North Korean government.  \n\nFebruary 2023. Latvian officials claimed that Russian hackers launched a phishing campaign against its Ministry of Defense. The Latvian Ministry of Defense stated this operation was unsuccessful.  \n\nFebruary 2023. Iranian hacktivists disrupted the state-run television broadcast of a speech by Iranian president Ebrahim Raisi during Revolution Day ceremonies. Hackers aired the slogan “Death to Khamenei” and encouraged citizens to join antigovernment protests.  \n\nFebruary 2023. An Iranian hacking group launched an espionage campaign against organizations in the Middle East. Hackers used a backdoor malware to compromise target email accounts. Researchers claim the hacking group is linked to Iranian intelligence services.  \n\nFebruary 2023. Iranian hacktivists claimed responsibility for taking down websites for the Bahrain international airport and state news agency.  \n\nFebruary 2023. Hackers launched a ransomware attack against Technion University, Israel’s top technology education program. Hackers demanded 80 bitcoin ($1.7 million USD) to decrypt the university’s files. Israeli cybersecurity officials blamed Iranian state-sponsored hackers for the attack.  \n\nFebruary 2023. Hackers disabled Italy’s Revenue Agency (Agenzia delle Entrane) website. While the website was disabled, users received phishing emails directing them to a false login page that mirrored the official agency site.  \n\nFebruary 2023. Chinese cyberespionage hackers performed a spear-phishing campaign against government and public sector organizations in Asia and Europe. The emails used a draft EU Commission letter as its initial attack vector. These campaigns have occurred since at least 2019. \n\nJanuary 2023. Latvian officials claimed that Russia-linked hackers launched a cyber espionage phishing campaign against its Ministry of Defense. The Latvian Ministry of Defense stated this operation was unsuccessful. \n\nJanuary 2023. CISA, the NSA, and the Multi-State Information Sharing and Analysis Center released a joint advisory warning of an increase in hacks on the federal civilian executive branch utilizing remote access software. This follows an October 2022 report on a financially motivated phishing campaign against multiple U.S. federal civilian executive branch agencies. \n\nJanuary 2023. Russia-linked hackers deployed a ransomware attack against the UK postal service, the Royal Mail. The attack disrupted the systems used to track international mail. \n\nJanuary 2023.  Iran-linked hackers executed ransomware attacks and exfiltrated data from U.S. public infrastructure and private Australian organizations. Australian authorities claim that the data exfiltrated was for use in extortion campaigns. \n\nJanuary 2023.  Hackers used ransomware to encrypt 12 servers at Costa Rica’s Ministry of Public Works, knocking all its servers offline.  \n\nJanuary 2023. Albanian officials reported that its government servers were still near-daily targets of cyber-attacks following a major attack by Iran-linked hackers in 2022. \n\nJanuary 2023.  Hackers launched a series of cyber-attacks against Malaysian national defense networks. Malaysian officials stated that the hacking activities were detected early enough to prevent any network compromise. \n\nJanuary 2023. Hackers targeted government, military, and civilian networks across the Asia Pacific leveraging malware to obtain confidential information. The malware targeted both the data on victim machines as well as audio captured by infected machines’ microphones. \n\nJanuary 2023. Hackers sent over a thousand emails containing malicious links to Moldovan government accounts.  \n\nDecember 2022. China-linked hackers launched phishing attacks against government, education, and research sector victims across the Asia Pacific. These attacks contained malware designed for espionage. \n\nDecember 2022. Hackers launched email phishing attacks against Ukranian government agencies and state railway systems. The emails included information on kamikaze drone identification and deployed malware designed for espionage onto victim machines. \n\nDecember 2022. Hackers obtained contact information for more than 80,000 members of FBI threat information sharing program, InfraGard. They then posted this information for sale on a cybercrime forum.  \n\nDecember 2022. Microsoft reported that it observed a pattern of attacks targeting Ukranian critical infrastructure from Russian hacking group, Sandworm. These attacks were accompanied by pro-Russian propaganda.  \n\nDecember 2022. The Human Rights Watch reported an ongoing, well-resourced cyber espionage, social engineering, and phishing campaign against human rights activists, journalists, diplomats, and politicians located across the Middle East. The organization attributed these operations to Iran-linked hackers.  \n\nDecember 2022. Hackers made Italy’s Ministry of Agriculture website unavailable through a DDoS attack. Italian officials described the attacks as “demonstrative” and claim that no data was breached and that they expect no lasting damage. \n\nDecember 2022.  Russia-linked hackers leveraged the networks of healthcare organizations, businesses, and critical infrastructures across the U.S., UK, France, and other countries to attack targets in Ukraine. Hackers’ primary motivations appear to be information stealing and disruption. \n\nDecember 2022. Iran-linked hackers obtained and leaked data from government ministries in Saudi Arabia. \n\nDecember 2022. Russia-linked hackers launched a DDoS attack against Vatican City servers, knocking its official website offline. The attack came three days after Russian government officials criticized Pope Francis for his comments about the war in Ukraine. \n\nDecember 2022.  Hackers launched a DDoS attack against the Danish defense ministry that disrupted access to its websites.  \n\nDecember 2022. Russia’s foreign minister claimed to be the target of coordinated cyber aggression by external intelligence agencies, IT companies, and hacktivists. According to Russian officials, such attacks have “doubled or tripled” over the past year. \n\nDecember 2022. Chinese government-linked hackers stole at least $20 million in COVID-19 relief funds from the U.S. government, including Small Business Administration loans and unemployment insurance money. The U.S. Secret Service announced they retrieved half of the stolen funds thus far.  \n\nDecember 2022. Chinese-linked hackers targeted Amnesty International of Canada in an apparent espionage operation.  \n\nDecember 2022.  A U.S. lawmaker predicted spyware hacks of U.S. government employees could be in the hundreds, including diplomats in multiple countries. This follows a probe into how many devices spyware are affected in the U.S. government. \n\nNovember 2022. Hackers disrupted operations at an Indian hospital by cutting off access to its online networks and patient records. It took hospital officials and federal authorities nearly two weeks to regain access to hospital servers and recover lost data. \n\nNovember 2022. Microsoft and ESET attributed cyberattacks aimed at the energy sector and logistics industries in Ukraine and Poland to a Russian GRU hacking group. The campaign began in late September 2022.  \n\nNovember 2022.  Hackers targeted Bahraini government websites with DDoS attacks prior the country’s parliamentary and local elections.  \n\nNovember 2022.  Iranian government-sponsored hackers compromised the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board, exploiting the log4shell vulnerability as early as February 2022. After breaching the network, hackers installed cryptocurrency-mining software and deployed malware to obtain sensitive data. \n\nNovember 2022.  Hackers damaged Danish State Railways’ network after targeting an IT subcontractor's software testing environment. The attack shut down train operations for several hours.  \n\nNovember 2022.  An Indian-based hacking group targeted Pakistani politicians, generals and diplomats, deploying malware that enables the attacker access to computer cameras and microphones. \n\nNovember 2022.  State-sponsored hackers with possible ties to the Chinese government targeted multiple Asian countries in an espionage operation since March 2022, compromising a digital certificate authority in one country. \n\nNovember 2022.  Hackers disabled digital services of the Vanuatu government in a cyberattack. The attack affected all government services, disabling emails, websites, and government systems, with only partial access restored a month later. Australian sources stated the hack was a ransomware attack.  \n\nNovember 2022.  Hackers targeted the Guadeloupe government, forcing the shutdown of all government computers to “protect data” during incident response and detect the scope of the attack. \n\nNovember 2022.  Indian hackers targeted Pakistani government entities, including the military, and companies since April 2020. The attacks enabled hackers to infiltrate systems and access computer controls.  \n\nNovember 2022.  Suspected Chinese-linked hackers carried out an espionage campaign on public and private organizations in the Philippines, Europe, and the United States since 2021. The attacks used infected USB drives to deliver malware to the organizations.  \n\nNovember 2022.  Chinese state-affiliated actors increased attacks on smaller nations in Southeast Asia for cyberespionage purposes.  \n\nOctober 2022. Hackers targeted a communications platform in Australia, which handles Department of Defence data, in a ransomware attack. The government believes hackers breached sensitive government data in this attack.  \n\nOctober 2022. A Ukrainian newspaper published hacked data claiming to be sensitive information from Russian defense contractors. The hackers responsible are part of an anti-Putin group in Russia.  \n\nOctober 2022.  Hackers targeted Bulgarian websites belonging to the presidential administration, the Defense Ministry, the Interior Ministry, the Justice Ministry, and the Constitutional Court in a DDoS attack. A pro-Russian hacking group claimed responsibility for the attack, stating it was punishment “for betrayal to Russia and the supply of weapons to Ukraine.” \n\nOctober 2022. Hackers targeted several major U.S. airports with a DDoS attack, impacting their websites. A pro-Russian hacking group promoted the attack prior to its execution. \n\nOctober 2022. Pro-Russian hackers claimed responsibility for an attack that knocked U.S. state government websites offline, including Colorado’s, Kentucky’s and Mississippi’s. \n\nOctober 2022. CISA, the FBI, and NSA announced state-sponsored hacking groups had long-term access to a defense company since January 2021 and compromised sensitive company data. \n\nSeptember 2022. Iranian hackers targeted Albanian computer systems, forcing Albanian officials to temporarily shut down the Total Information Management System, a service used to track individuals entering and exiting Albania. This attack closely followed Albania’s decision to sever diplomatic ties with Iran as well as the American sanctions and NATO’s condemnation of an Iranian cyberattack against Albania in July. In the July attack, Iranian actors deployed ransomware on Albanian Government networks that destroyed data and disrupted government services. \n\nSeptember 2022.  A newly discovered hacking group targeted telecommunications, internet service providers, and universities in the Middle East and Africa. The group deploys malware platforms directly into systems’ memory, bypassing native security solutions.  \n\nSeptember 2022. Hackers targeted Montenegro’s government networks, rendering Montenegro’s main state websites and government information platforms inaccessible. Montenegrin officials blamed Russia for the attack. \n\nSeptember 2022. Hackers targeted the state-level parliamentary website of Bosnia and Herzegovina, rendering the sites and servers inaccessible for multiple weeks. \n\nSeptember 2022. China accused the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) of numerous cyberattacks against China’s Northwestern Polytechnical University. Authorities claim the NSA stole user data and infiltrated digital communications networks.  \n\nSeptember 2022. The group Anonymous took responsibility for a series of cyberattacks against the Iranian government that took down two main Iranian government websites and the websites of several state media organizations. \n\nSeptember 2022. Hackers targeted the Mexican Defense Ministry and accessed six terabytes of data, including internal communications, criminal data, and data that revealed Mexico’s monitoring of Ken Salazar, the U.S. Ambassador to Mexico. Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador confirmed the authenticity of the data, including personal health data released to the public.  \n\nSeptember 2022. A Russian-based hacking group targeted the website of the United Kingdom’s intelligence agency MI5 with a DDoS attack that temporarily took the site offline. \n\nAugust 2022. Hackers breached Italy’s energy agency, Gestore dei Servizi Energetici (GSE), compromising servers, blocking access to systems, and suspending access to the GSE website for a week. \n\nAugust 2022.  Hackers used a DDoS attack to temporarily take down the website of Taiwan’s presidential office. The Taiwanese government attributed the attack to foreign hackers and stated normal operations of the website resumed after 20 minutes. Taiwan’s Foreign Ministry also noted hackers targeted their website and the main portal website for Taiwan’s government.  \n\nAugust 2022.  Hackers targeted the Finnish Parliament with a DDoS attack that rendered the Parliamentary website inaccessible. A Russian group claimed responsibility for the attack on Telegram.  \n\nAugust 2022.  Hackers targeted the website of Ukraine’s state energy agency responsible for the oversight of Ukraine’s nuclear power plants. The agency stated Russian hackers carried out the attack.  \n\nAugust 2022.  Hackers targeted the website of the Latvian Parliament with a DDoS attack that temporarily paralyzed the website’s server. A Russian hacking group claimed responsibility for the attack on Telegram.  \n\nAugust 2022.  Hackers targeted Greece’s largest natural gas distributor DESFA causing a system outage and data exposure.  \n\nAugust 2022.  A Russian group claimed responsibility for breaching a privately owned UK water supply company South Staffordshire Water and leaking files in an extortion attempt. \n\nAugust 2022.  Hackers targeted Montenegro’s government institutions, breaching the computer systems of several state bodies. Montenegro’s Defense Minister stated there was sufficient evidence to suspect Russia was behind the attack.  \n\nAugust 2022.  A DDoS campaign targeted the websites of both government and private Estonian institutions. Estonia stated that the attack was largely repelled, and the impact was limited. \n\nAugust 2022. Hackers used phishing emails to deploy malware in government institutions and defense firms throughout Eastern Europe in January 2022. A report by Russian-based company Kaspersky linked the campaign to a Chinese hacking group. \n\nJuly 2022.  Hackers targeted the Pakistan Air Force (PAF) in a spearfishing campaign to deploy malware and obtain sensitive files. Pakistani and Chinese organizations claimed the attack came from Indian-linked hackers. \n\nJuly 2022.  Hackers targeted Iran’s Islamic Culture and Communication Organization (ICCO). The attack took down at least 6 websites, placed images of Iranian resistance leaders on fifteen additional sites, wiped databases and computers, and allowed hackers to obtain access to sensitive ICCO data.  \n\nJuly 2022.  A hacker claimed to acquire records on 1 billion Chinese from a Shanghai police database and posted the data for sale online.  \n\nJuly 2022.  Belgium’s Foreign Ministry accused China of a cyberespionage campaign against Belgian targets, including Belgium’s Ministries of Interior and Defense. A spokesperson for the Chinese Embassy in Belgium denied the accusations. \n\nJuly 2022.  Hackers targeted social media accounts owned by the British Royal Army. The attack included the takeover of the British Army’s Twitter and YouTube accounts. \n\nJuly 2022.  Hackers targeted Lithuania’s state-owned energy provider in a DDoS attack. Killnet, which Lithuanian officials link to Russia, claimed responsibility for the attack. \n\nJuly 2022.  Hackers temporarily took down websites belonging to the Albanian Prime Minister's Office and the Parliament, and the e-Albania portal used to access public services. \n\nJuly 2022.  Hackers breached a Ukrainian media company to broadcast on multiple radio stations that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was in critical condition. Zelenskyy refuted the claims and blamed Russia for the attack. \n\nJuly 2022. China stated the United States stole 97 billion pieces of global internet data and 124 billion pieces of telephone data in June, specifically blaming the National Security Agency (NSA)'s Office of Tailored Access Operations (TAO). \n\nJune 2022.  Hackers targeted Lithuania’s state railway, airports, media companies, and government ministries with DDoS attacks. A Russian-backed hacking group claimed responsibility for the attack.  \n\nJune 2022.  The FBI, National Security Agency (NSA) and CISA announced that Chinese state-sponsored hackers targeted and breached major telecommunications companies and network service providers since at least 2020. \n\nJune 2022.  Hackers targeted former Israeli officials, military personnel, and a former U.S. Ambassador to Israel. An Israeli cybersecurity firm stated Iranian-linked actors used a phishing campaign to gain access to the targets’ inboxes, personally identifiable information, and identity documents. \n\nJune 2022.  Hackers targeted three Iranian steel companies, forcing the country’s state-owned plant to halt production. \n\nJune 2022.  Hackers leaked files and photos known as “The Xinjiang Police Files” displaying human rights abuses committed by the Chinese government against the Uyghur population.  \n\nJune 2022.  An attack targeted users of Australia’s largest Chinese-language platform, Media Today. The hackers made over 20 million attempts to reset user passwords in the platform’s registration system. \n\nJune 2022.  Hackers targeted municipal public address systems in Jerusalem and Eliat, triggering the air raid sirens systems throughout both cities. An Israeli industrial cybersecurity firm attributed the attack to Iran. \n\nJune 2022.  A Chinese-linked disinformation campaign targeted an Australian mining company. The campaign included spreading disinformation on social media platforms and websites regarding the company’s alleged environmental record. \n\nJune 2022.  A phishing campaign targeted U.S. organizations in military, software, supply chain, healthcare, and pharmaceutical sectors to compromise Microsoft Office 365 and Outlook accounts.  \n\nJune 2022.  Hackers compromised accounts belonging to officials in Germany’s Greens party, including ones used previously by Annalena Baerbock and Robert Habeck, who now serve as Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Action. \n\nJune 2022.  Hackers targeted Norwegian public institutions with DDoS attacks, disrupting government websites. The Norwegian NSM security authority attributed the attack to pro-Russian hackers. \n\nMay 2022.  A DDoS attack targeted the Port of London Authority, forcing its website to go offline. A group linked to Iran took responsibility for the hack. \n\nMay 2022.  A phishing campaign targeted the Jordan Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Researchers attributed the attack to an Iranian cyber espionage actor. \n\nMay 2022.   The Ethiopian Information Network Security Agency (INSA) stated hackers targeted the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD). Ethiopia’s communications security agency thwarted the attacks before hackers could gain access to the networks.  \n\nMay 2022. Hackers targeted Greenland’s healthcare system, causing networks to crash throughout the island. While an initial diagnosis determined the attack did not damage or expose citizens’ data, it made health services severely limited. \n\nMay 2022. A Chinese hacking group stole intellectual property assets from U.S and European companies since 2019 and went largely undetected. Researchers believe the group is backed by the Chinese government.  \n\nMay 2022.  State-sponsored hackers took down RuTube, the Russian version of YouTube, according to the company.  \n\nMay 2022. Russian hackers hit Italian websites with a DDoS attack, including the Senate, the Ministry of Defence, and the National Health Institute. The group states its goal was to target NATO countries and Ukraine.  \n\nApril 2022. The Romanian National Directorate of Cyber Security said that multiple public and private sector websites were hit with DDoS attacks. The victims included the ministry of defense, border police, national railway company, and the OTP Bank. A group claiming credit for the attack said on Telegram that it hacked the websites because Romania supported Ukraine since the Russian invasion of the country.  \n\nApril 2022. Cybersecurity researchers identified a new campaign by Russian-linked hackers that started in January and targets diplomats and embassy officials from France, Poland, Portugal, and other countries. The hacks started with a phishing email to deliver a malware-laden file to the target.  \n\nApril 2022. Iranian state television claimed that the government foiled cyber intrusions that targeted more than 100 public sector agencies. They provided no further information on the incident.  \n\nApril 2022. Russian hackers targeted the Costa Rican Ministry of Finance in a cyberattack, crippling tax collection and export systems. The newly elected President of Costa Rica declared a national emergency as a result of the attack and the group asked for $20 million in ransom or it plans to leak the stolen data.  \n\nApril 2022. Hackers targeted members of the European Commission with spyware developed by NSO Group. An Apple notification from November to thousands of iPhone users stating they were targeted by state-sponsored actor alerted the Commission of this spyware use. \n\nApril 2022. A North Korea-linked hacking campaign using phishing emails sent from fake job recruiters targeted chemical companies in South Korea. \n\nApril 2022. A Citizen Lab study discovered actors used NSO Group spyware to target at least 65 Catalonian activists and political figures.  \n\nApril 2022. The U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control attributed the March 29 hack of Ronin Network to a North Korean hacking group and announced sanctions against the hackers. The group stole over $540 million in Ethereum and USDC.  \n\nApril 2022. Hackers launched DDoS attacks against websites belonging to the Finnish Ministries of Defence and Foreign Affairs. The attack’s botnet used over 350 IP addresses from around the world and the denial of service was sustained for four hours.  \n\nApril 2022. Hackers targeted the Telegram accounts of Ukrainian government officials with a phishing attack in an attempt to gain access to the accounts.   \n\nApril 2022. Cybersecurity researchers observed hackers penetrating the networks of at least 7 Indian State Load Dispatch Centres (SLDCs) which oversee operations for electrical grid control. The SLDCs manage SCADA systems and researchers suggested that PLA-linked hackers may be involved. \n\nApril 2022. A social media platform disrupted two Iranian-linked cyber espionage campaigns that targeted activists, academics, and private companies. The campaign targeted businesses in the energy, semiconductor, and telecom sectors in countries including the U.S., Israel, Russia, and Canada by using phishing and other social engineering techniques. \n\nApril 2022. A group targeted several Ukrainian media organizations in an attempt to gain long-term access to their networks and collect sensitive information, according to researchers. The group has connections to the Russian GRU.  \n\nApril 2022. The United States removed Russian malware from computer networks around the world, a move made public by Attorney General Merrick B. Garland. While it is unclear what the malware’s intention was, authorities noted it could be used from anything from surveillance to destructive attacks. The malware created a botnet controlled by the Russian GRU. \n\nApril 2022. Hackers targeted a Ukrainian energy facility, but CERT-UA and private sector assistance largely thwarted attempts to shutdown electrical substations in Ukraine. Researchers believe the attack came from the same group with ties to the Russian GRU that targeted Ukraine’s power grid in 2016, using an updated form of the same malware. \n\nApril 2022:  Hackers targeted Ukraine’s National Post Office with a DDoS attack, days after releasing a new stamp honoring a Ukrainian border guard. Th attack affected the agency’s ability to run their online store."}
