{"title":"OMS Reviews","author":null,"date":null,"main_content":"ZduXZVe+NcBIRDua2dy92A== 2025-12-18T16:28:24Z summer 2025\n\nThis review is for Fall 2025 term.\n\nJust finished the class with an A. It has been a tough class, probably the most laborious and time-consuming among all I’ve taken so far (see below).\nOne piece of advice to those who are going to take this class: have a LOT of time on hands to spend on this class. No matter what your background is, if you have time to spend on this class you are likely to succeed.\nAlso, when you write your reports, it helps to have a dedicated “Hypotheses” section with a few numbered hypotheses that are drawn from the course material or papers (explicitly sighted) and then in the Results/Conclusion sections you explicitly accept or reject each of these numbered hypotheses.\n\nBackground: 7th class in the program (after AI4R, KBAI, ML4T, AI, DL and CN). The material in ML4T, AI and DL was very useful as a pre-courser for ML - most items in this course looked familiar which helped a lot. Prior to that – no/minimal CS but some STEM academic background (from about 20 years ago). I do have some experience with academic writing and LaTeX, both the previous academic background and from current work. Other than that, demanding full-time on-site job, family and other obligations. Taking the program mostly for self-development, not for career change (although – who knows nowadays).\nI value the courses I take as the ratio of how much new I learned vs. the amount of time and stress it took. For this class, the denominator goes to infinity whereas the numerator, while large, is finite. Hence, it was not my favorite class (so far, the best class for me was AI4R, and by far the worst – KBAI (please do not waste your time with this class)).\n\nThe good:\n\nProfessor LaGrow and all teaching staff do their best to encourage the students. You may (and most likely will) feel miserable at times but they don’t want you to. With the number of extra points, reviewer response, etc. anyone who spends the proper time on this course can succeed.\n\nThe material is quite interesting. Maybe not the very cutting edge but essential.\n\nI obtained (or started obtaining) a very useful skill: using AI code generating tools to produce the code that does the desired analysis. I would not be able to write all the code for all the analysis by myself – nor apparently this is needed any longer.\n\nNot so good:\n\nI felt that the amount of material was overwhelming. With its breadth, it was not possible to dive deep enough. Every 3 weeks a super large topic was covered, and in these 3 weeks, one had to (preferably) understand what’s going on, write (or generate) bunch of code, run it on two very different datasets (one of which is huge and super noisy), design and run your experiments that should test a few dozen things and then write an 8-page report.\n\nThe course puts an emphasis on academic writing. Although undoubtfully an important skill (plus helps to organize the subject knowledge), I believe in this case this emphasis was excessive. I’d much rather prefer to understand the subject matter deeper.\n\nThere is a lot of debate on the quality of the lectures. Some love this format, some hate it. I would have been OK with it if the lectures were not so long. With the number of things to do for the course, I could not afford to spend several hours a week listening to the lectures. It feels that the same could have been said in a more concise manner.\n\nAs many students complain, the report grading feels random. My grades were 89, 89, 62 (+19 recovered in reviewer response), 101 but the structure of report 3 mimicked that of 1 and 2. The main complaint of Report 3 grader was that there was no a dedicated section with the “numbered” hypotheses (although they were formulated in the Methodology and Data sections of the report). Most likely the need for the separate section was discussed in the OH (that I mostly could not attend) but there was no such requirement in the project description or the FAQs. What I’m trying to say is that I had no feeling at all about what grade I was going to get for the reports (I personally felt that my report 3 was stronger than 1 and 2).\n\nAll in all, I’m not regretting taking this course, just wish it was not taking ALL my time (and more).\n\nRating: 4 / 5 Difficulty: 5 / 5 Workload: 30 hours / week"}
