{"title":"Houston&#39;s Hottest New Restaurants to Visit This Month, December 2025","author":null,"date":null,"main_content":"Houston has no shortage of great restaurants. From Michelin-recognized  and  James Beard Award–winning spots to fantastic fast-casual, we have it all. And new restaurants continue to open.\n\nWhile it's challenging to keep up with the city’s ever-evolving food scene, Houstonia has compiled a handful of restaurants that have opened this year that are worth adding to your dining bucket list. Here are the best Houston restaurants to hit up right now.\n\nEditor’s Note: This map features the top Houston restaurants each month, as chosen by  Houstonia’ s editors. All restaurants included have opened in 2025. This list has been updated in November to include Maison Chinoise and Murray's Pizza and Wine.\n\nWine lovers, there's a new option in town. Chateau Bellecru promises a \"true French wine bar\" experience. Transport yourself to Paris by stepping into its intimate, dimly lit space, then set out for its drinks list. Sip on a selection of wines curated weekly, and pair with something from the food menu. Go classic with a cheese and charcuterie board with a side of truffle chips, or pair with something sweet, like chocolate cake and honey spice bread. Reservations are encouraged for visitors after 7pm. \n\nDavid Skinner’s revival of his esteemed restaurant is back with a refreshed look and menu. Eculent Restaurant & Liquid Lab is perfect for diners yearning for a night filled with theatrical drinks (as suggested by the restaurant’s revised name). There’s the Sleepy Hollow Cocktail, presented with a steamy bubble that pops before your first sip, and a “mask” drink that requires all the senses to enjoy—its mystery awaits you. And it wouldn’t be a Skinner restaurant if there wasn’t a tasting menu. Devise your own using the required app for ordering, or try the 13-course tasting menu, featuring some of Eculent’s favorite bites from over the last decade, including a cherry tomato packed with the flavor of a BLT, a handheld Caesar salad, and a dish inspired by an interaction he had with Julia Child. The best part about the comeback? Skinner has found a way to use AI to his advantage: Diners can build a profile and order through an app he built, allowing everyone to tailor their experience to their preferences. Especially cool is the option to craft your own cocktail with Eculent’s ingredients (all of the spirits and syrups are made in-house). If it’s a hit, the restaurant will name it after you and add it to its menu.\n\nThis Chinese restaurant officially opened its second Texas location in River Oaks; modern and traditional techniques produce flavorful fusion dishes, including dim sum, dumplings, and house specialties like Beijing duck and roasted spice chicken. Pair its diverse selection of noodles, fried rice, and seafood with drinks like the vodka-loaded Lychee Luck or the pandan espresso martini.\n\nThe team behind Leaf and Grain opened this new restaurant in late October. Start with a refreshing plate of the crudo (yellowtail Hamachi, salmon, leche de tigre, salsa macha, and a kick of Fresno pepper). Then, follow it up with a touch of Italian pies that are perfect for sharing. Signature pizzas include sausage alla vodka, wild mushroom, prosciutto with arugula, and classic cheese or pepperoni. Up the experience with a pick from its list of wines, cocktails, and mocktails. \n\nThis Asiatown gem elicits the feeling of a South Korea 24-hour convenience store. Equipped with DIY ramen bowls, K-snacks, and K-Pop vibes, it's like Houstonians are walking into another country all without ever having to hop on an international flight. First, take your pick from the base options, which include popular flavors and Korean classics, such as spicy Shin Ramyun, Jin Ramen, seafood soup–flavored Neoguri, and the viral tear-inducing spicy Buldak ramen. Next, load up on toppings, like bulgogi beef, kimchi, cooked bok choy, mushrooms, mozzarella cheese, or even milk for a creamier texture. Finally: Cook the ramen on a machine stovetop, and get to slurpin'.\n\nHugo Ortega is back at it with the opening of his newest restaurant in Downtown, situated just across the street from Discovery Green. The cuisine is what Ortega deems “Las Californias,” a reimagining of what the land and its food would look like if there were no borders. The menu combines California’s abundance of fruits and vegetables with Baja California’s rich seafood, cooking preparations, and wines. Standouts include the tacos de nada, which feature octopus, potato, banana peppers, pickled vegetables, and salsa verde tatemada; the empanadas de Borrego with braised lamb shank, ponzu, and mushroom; and the pato y Conejo, a plate with confit duck leg, braised rabbit, chorizo, saffron, and ancho-morita aioli."}
