{"title":"PLAYING THEIR PART: What does the market for catering spares look like in 2026?","author":"Andrew Seymour","date":"2025-12-19T13:39:19+00:00","main_content":"In a commercial kitchen, every single minute of downtime is a blow to productivity and profits – as any dealer that has received a call from a distressed customer whose equipment has broken down knows only too well.\n\nAgainst this backdrop, where the smallest part can have the biggest impact, it is perhaps little surprise that the spare parts supply chain has become such a critical and innovative element of the catering equipment ecosystem.\n\nThe ability to deliver replacement parts quickly, accurately and sustainably has never been more vital, which is why specialist spares providers are investing heavily in tools and technology to streamline the process and enhance efficiency.\n\nThe largest provider of them all, Parts Town UK, has implemented several innovations to improve operations, parts sourcing, inventory, and its overall spare parts service.\n\n“Our experience, paired with the relationships we hold with our OEM partners, means our order management system algorithm is tailored to ensure the UK’s highest stock availability of the most required parts to the industry,” explains managing director Mike Barrett. “To further enhance our availability, we are currently trialling a digital software company to develop our product demand algorithms and buying patterns.\n\n“Earlier in the year we introduced a new innovative conveyor system in our distribution centre to optimise the flow of parts by significantly increasing box release efficiencies, enabling faster order fulfilment, which is crucial in meeting our growth rates in OEM parts shipments.\n\n“Together these innovations enable Parts Town UK to improve operational efficiency, reduce lead times, and deliver a higher level of service to customers, partners, and suppliers.”\n\nRecent years have seen major changes in how quickly and intelligently parts providers can get items to customers that need them. Caren Harvey, managing director at Foodservice Equipment Spares (FES), says more suppliers are using smarter systems to track orders, manage stock and keep customers up to date. It is working on these things itself, building in live stock updates, proper traceability and faster dispatch.\n\n“Connected equipment and predictive maintenance are also starting to make their mark,” she says. “With newer machines able to flag when something’s wearing out before it fails, people are able to plan better and cut downtime. But the biggest win is making innovation actually useful. Smaller operators don’t always have the budget for the big systems, so we help them take a simple, practical approach. Keeping a few key spares close by, knowing which parts fail the most, being ready for the obvious problems – sometimes the basics are the smartest thing you can do.”\n\nJag Thandi, group chief commercial officer at Buttress Group, which owns Caterparts, agrees that the biggest transformation in the sector is happening behind the scenes. Innovation in predictive data, digital cataloguing and AI-driven technology are allowing parts providers to anticipate demand before the customer even picks up the phone.\n\n“At Caterparts, automation will support everything from replenishment triggers to compatibility verification, meaning customers spend less time searching and more time servicing their clients,” he comments.\n\n“We’ve also made significant investments in state-of-the-art automation through our new vertical lift management systems. This is a major leap forward in both speed and accuracy. The system delivers a 99% pick accuracy rate and can process a complete order in just 12 seconds, dramatically improving fulfilment efficiency and reducing human error. This level of precision ensures that engineers and dealers get the exact part they need, faster than ever before.”\n\nPlanning for demand\n\nParts Town’s business intelligence platform provides real time visibility into stock movement, seasonal trends and product in-stock performance. To gain a deeper insight into specific groups, and as part of its ISO quality and improvement accreditation, the company recently introduced parts classification by brand and category. With a closer focus on new growing sectors, such as beverage and public sector, Parts Town is confident of building a stronger product portfolio and stockholding to meet demand.\n\n“We also leverage the relationships with our OEM partners to plan for the demand and ensure stock availability, as well as being the first to find out about the latest models and product launches,” says Barrett. “Purchasing cycles can be aligned with emerging trends and upcoming product needs, resulting in shorter lead times and higher stock availability for customers.”\n\nData from connected equipment is starting to influence the industry and it is an evolving area, he adds. “As operators adopt smarter, and more connected foodservice equipment, we expect that usage-based insights will start to play a larger role in predicting parts demand, particularly for routine maintenance and wear and tear parts.”\n\nFES uses a combination of data, historical sales, engineer feedback and information from its suppliers about product performance and demand trends to plan ahead. Spotting clear patterns enables it to stay one step ahead and keep the right items available when customers need them most.\n\n“The rise of connected kitchen equipment is shaping this, too,” insists Harvey. “Larger operators are starting to use data from their kit to forecast demand, and we expect that to become more common. Smaller businesses are taking a simpler approach for now, just keeping tabs on which parts they use most often and how long it takes to replace them. It’s all about getting ahead of problems instead of reacting to them.”\n\nResilient service models\n\nAll of these trends points to a market where customers are definitely changing the way they think about spare parts procurement. There is now a greater focus on planning ahead and a deeper appreciation of the value that effective spare parts management can bring to a business.\n\nThandi says Caterparts has noticed a significant behavioural shift among both dealers and operators this year. “There’s a stronger appetite for preventative maintenance, and a recognition that holding the right critical spares on van stocks can make the difference between a quick fix and a costly shutdown. Dealers, in particular, are becoming more data-led in how they plan stock, drawing on historical usage patterns rather than relying purely on experience. The result is a more resilient service model across the supply chain.”\n\nParts Town, too, cites an emphasis on PPM among its customer base, along with an increase in customers stocking parts to support warranty work and warranty protection. “This is further aided by the fact that warranty expectations have grown and manufacturers are looking to protect their equipment with more of a strategic approach to holding warranty-related spare parts,” notes Barrett.\n\nThere has also been a rise in order consolidation. With Parts Town’s opening hours now extended to 7pm, customers are increasingly grouping their orders to reduce the number of shipments they receive and to order more efficiently.\n\nOver at FES, the company is seeing operators think more carefully about value and long-term cost of ownership. Instead of sticking rigidly to certain brands, they’re weighing up factors like ease of maintenance, parts availability and pricing along with overall running costs.\n\nThis shift affects what they choose to buy and how they work with the company, says Caren Harvey. For smaller operators, this change has made a real difference. They have become more aware of the cost of a breakdown and how much disruption it causes, she says.\n\n“Many now tell us which brands and models they deal with the most, so we can hold a bit of stock for them and be ready when they need something. It’s simple communication, but it goes a long way and helps us support them properly. Overall, there’s a more collaborative approach across the board now.\n\n“Dealers, engineers and parts suppliers are talking more openly about what’s needed and how to keep kitchens running without unnecessary delays or extra cost.”\n\nTransformative technology\n\nThere is certainly a lot for spare parts providers to be positive about. The biggest opportunity is using data and experience to help customers plan better and avoid downtime. Predictive maintenance, better visibility and more joined-up service options are all making a difference, especially among the growing band of customers favouring repair over replacement.\n\nFES’ Harvey thinks there is a wider shift happening around repairability in general. “Most of the formal ‘Right to Repair’ rules sit on the domestic side of the industry, but the principles behind them are filtering into commercial catering too,” she suggests. “Operators expect equipment to last longer, parts to be accessible and repairs to be straightforward. Even if the legislation doesn’t apply directly to everything we work with, the mindset definitely has. People want to repair instead of replace, and they want fair access to the parts to do it.”\n\nHarvey also makes another important point: the influence of engineers when it comes to brand loyalty. It is something that suppliers should bear in mind, she says. “Engineers are the ones on the ground, advising customers and keeping the equipment running. If parts become harder to access or too costly, it naturally shapes the recommendations they make.\n\n“Most engineers will steer their customers towards equipment they know they can repair quickly, reliably and at a fair price. When choice narrows, costs can rise, and that’s not helpful for anyone in the chain. That’s why being independent still matters. It gives us the freedom to be fair, build proper partnerships and look after customers the way they should be looked after.”\n\nThose at the heart of the ever-evolving spares market believe the future is bright. The biggest opportunity lies in integration and the prospect of connecting manufacturers, service partners and parts providers through shared data platforms, according to Thandi at Caterparts.\n\nThis ecosystem approach will drive faster identification, ordering and delivery of components, creating a more responsive and sustainable supply chain, he argues.\n\nThe main challenge, meanwhile, is complexity. The variety of equipment models, part variations, and fragmented supply channels can make standardisation difficult. However, as technology advances and collaboration strengthens, the industry is well-placed to overcome this. “At its core, the future of the spares market will be defined by one thing: predictive precision. It is the ability to deliver the right part, at the right time, through intelligent systems and connected insights, keeping kitchens running, one part at a time,” says Thandi.\n\nParts Town UK agrees that the continuous advancement of AI and digital e-commerce will play a transformative role in how parts are sourced, ordered, and managed. From smarter search capabilities and auto product recommendations to more intuitive online ordering, these innovations will help operators and dealers find the right parts faster.\n\nBarrett says the company is committed to continuously innovating and has several digital innovations planned in 2026 for customers and partners as part of its ‘Next Level Projects’ programme. “It is imperative to make the spare parts identification process as simple as possible for customers,” he says. “Working with our OEM partners, we have introduced serial number look-up tools to aid the technician with the spare parts selection process.”\n\nAs equipment and kitchens becomes more connected and data improves, it is only natural that it will support more accurate stocking, better service planning, and reduced equipment downtime. This will then enable spare parts distributors to refine product forecasting and tailor stock levels even more accurately, achieving the coveted alignment between equipment usage and parts availability that continues to remain the ultimate goal."}
