{"title":"Advocates push to expand high-impact tutoring programs, citing success","author":"Hannah Gross","date":"2025-11-19T05:11:43+00:00","main_content":"Small group tutoring is helping struggling students catch up after falling behind in school during the pandemic. The New Jersey Tutoring Corps, a provider of high-impact tutoring to thousands of students, is looking to Gov.-elect Mikie Sherrill to help bring the tutoring intervention to more students.\n\nThe nonprofit is celebrating its third anniversary and another successful year for students, according to its 2024-25 school year impact report. The percentage of students who began the 2024-25 school year two or more years behind was nearly cut in half in math and reduced by one-third in English Language Arts by May.\n\nDespite seeing gains, several district and community partners had to pull out of tutoring for the current school year due to cuts in state funding and delays in federal funding. Advocates of high-impact tutoring hope the new administration will help more students see the benefits.\n\nSherrill has advocated for high-impact tutoring both in Congress and during her campaign. In Washington, Sherrill introduced legislation to expand access to high-impact tutoring programs in schools. The legislation, which has not become law, was part of a package focused on creating good-paying jobs across New Jersey, according to a news release from her office.\n\n“Governor-elect Sherrill is a mom of four who saw firsthand how our kids struggled during the pandemic and how they are continuing to feel the impacts of learning loss,” Sherrill spokesperson Sean Higgins said in a statement. “We know that high-intensity tutoring is a proven way to help get back on track, succeed in the classroom, and prepare them to enter the workforce. The Governor-elect will build upon this successful model and work with districts across the state to ensure high-impact tutoring programs are being implemented to support students at risk of falling behind.”\n\nUnder Gov. Phil Murphy, the Education Department has supported tutoring with more than $60 million in grants that went out to about 250 school districts. For the current fiscal year, the governor and lawmakers included $1 million in the budget for the New Jersey Tutoring Corps. Katherine Bassett, the organization’s CEO, said she hopes Sherrill adds more money to the budget for tutoring when she takes office.\n\n“With Gov.-elect Sherrill coming into office, with her focus, her belief, her commitment to high-impact tutoring, things will only get better in terms of being able to offer this service to schools and districts, and being able to do so with fidelity,” Bassett said.\n\nTutoring costs about $65 per student per hour for a period of 12 to 20 weeks, she said. Cost varies based on how often and for how long students receive tutoring, in which subjects and how many students are receiving tutoring at the same location. Most districts currently pay for tutoring with federal Title funds, which are largely for low-income students, she said.\n\n“School districts are finding themselves in a position where they’re having to make really hard decisions. They’re having to cut programs, and so bringing in an external program like New Jersey Tutoring Corps is very difficult when your money is so limited,” Bassett said.\n\nA former state teacher of the year, Bassett started the nonprofit in 2021 to help students recover from pandemic learning loss in math and literacy. The organization has provided more than 15,000 students with small group tutoring in 19 of 21 counties.\n\nThe goal is to help students reach grade level proficiency using research-supported principles to make tutoring as effective as possible. This includes having students work with the same tutor consistently for two to three sessions a week in each subject area. Tutoring lasts 30 to 60 minutes and tutor-to-student ratios are between 1:1 and 1:3.\n\nThis is based on recommendations from the Annenberg Institute at Brown University, which recently produced a report focused on the New Jersey Tutoring Corps which it said was a strong example of a research-backed approach to tutoring.\n\nAnother report from the University of Chicago found that high-dosage tutoring is effective overall and more tutoring minutes correlate with greater learning gains. The New Jersey Tutoring Corps has declined to work with districts that were unwilling to spend at least 30 minutes on tutoring per session, Bassett said.\nThe percentage of New Jersey Tutoring Corps scholars performing at grade level improved about 15% in math and English Language Arts across grades one through eight during the 2024-25 school year. Bassett said there are other benefits, too, including increased confidence and more regular attendance among students who participate.\n\nAt iLearn schools, a group of 19 charter schools across the state, tutoring has proven more effective than other interventions the schools have tried, said Chief Academic Officer Gurkan Kose. The charter school network is in its third year working with the New Jersey Tutoring Corps, which they have paid for with a state grant and federal Title I funds for low-income students. The district used to have “Title I teachers,” which they got rid of in favor of the more targeted support offered by small-group tutoring.\n\nChristopher Sari, a tutor and high school math teacher, said small-group tutoring gives teachers a chance to tailor instruction to individual students more than in a typical classroom setting since they can identify a student’s strengths and weaknesses more quickly.\n\n“I can’t think of one thing that would better suit New Jersey’s students right now,” he said.\n\nSari started tutoring in his junior year at The College of New Jersey, where he studied secondary education, before becoming a full-time math teacher at New Milford High School. Sari said working as a tutor in college helped him develop his teaching philosophy and prepared him to enter the classroom after graduation.\n\nMany of the tutors who work for the New Jersey Tutoring Corps are pre-service or aspiring educators, which Bassett, the CEO, said will help the state fill teacher shortages in key areas.\n\nOther tutors are retired educators, career switchers considering teaching or current teachers who tutor during the summer. The tutoring corps believes adding more tutors to expand access should not be very difficult in most of the state, although expanding in rural areas could be more difficult.\n\nMichael Ettore, a site coordinator and instruction coach in Monmouth County, said he views his role as a way to train future teachers and help fill shortages. Ettore, a former superintendent of schools in Little Silver and Monmouth Beach, said he saw a decline in applicants for full-time teaching roles in his final years as superintendent. Positions posted in August used to receive at least 50 resumes in a day or two, Ettore said. Now, he would be lucky to get five.\n“To have that chance to work as an instructional coach for these novice and aspiring teachers meant I could, in some small way, start to turn the tide a little bit,” Ettore said.\n\nMost students at the sites where Ettore has worked come from low-income families who can’t afford to hire private tutors. Receiving tutoring at school or through a Boys and Girls Club summer program is much more affordable and accessible, he said.\n\n“The parents that are middle and upper middle class have the means to hire tutors for their students, for their children to fill in gaps and help them reach even greater heights of academic success as opposed to the scholars that participate in the tutoring program who typically don’t come from a family like that,” Ettore said. “We’re trying to really level the playing field.”\n\nStudents who participate also gain confidence as they make progress, he said.\n\n“The tutors make it very clear to our scholars that our biggest goal is for them not just to learn, but to get excited about learning so they will feel better about themselves, gain a better sense of confidence that they can take back with them to their classrooms and continue to succeed,” he said.\n\nSome of the pandemic gaps have already been made up and tutoring should be expanded to reach more people, Ettore said. If the program does grow, accountability will be important, Bassett said.\n\n“Hold all of us tutoring providers accountable,” Bassett said. “Ask us to show you what we did, how we did it and what the results are.”\n\nEditor’s note: The story has been edited to update the average cost of tutoring provided by the New Jersey Tutoring Corps."}
