{"title":"North America Vacations","author":null,"date":null,"main_content":"Menu\n\nSave Up To $200\n\non select vacations\nlearn more\n\nNorth America Tours & Packages\n\nEmbark on a journey of a lifetime and experience the best of Canada and the US. Our 7-15 day North America tours are tailored to cater to every adventurer, with scenic national parks, cosmopolitan cities, famous museums, and more. Uncover the richness of North America with every step of your journey. Book today!\n\nSearching for Vacations\n{{vacationCount}} Vacations\nNo Vacations\n\nNorth America Tours by Region\n\nOur North America travel packages are your ticket to explore the diverse wonders of this beautiful continent. Whether you're looking for a North America tour filled with natural beauty or cityscape excitement, we've got you covered. Book a tour to North America and experience the best of the USA and Canada with expert Travel Directors by your side. From the bustling cities of New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco to the serene landscapes of Banff National Park and Niagara Falls, you'll discover the most iconic destinations of North America. Our local guides take you through the streets of their hometowns, revealing hidden gems and local secrets that you wouldn't find on your own. Don't miss out on this unforgettable experience - book your North America tour today!\n\nUSA National Parks Tours\n\nCheck out our collection of US National Park tour packages if you want to tour one of the top USA National Parks. You can visit Yellowstone National Park, Bryce Canyon National Park, Zion National Park, Arches National Park, Yosemite National Park, Canyonlands National Park, Denali National Park, Sequoia National Park, the Badlands, Mesa Verde National Park, Mount Rushmore, the Crazy Horse Memorial, the Black Hills, or Monument Valley, often checking off more than one or two parks in one trip!\n\nWestern and Northwestern United States\n\nCalifornia: Discover the lively cities of San Francisco and Los Angeles. Trace the path of celebrities along the renowned Walk of Fame and take in the sparkle and splendor of Hollywood. Experience the wonders of must-see attractions like Yosemite National Park, the Grand Canyon, and the Napa and Sonoma wine regions.\n\nPacific Northwest: Discover the natural beauty of Oregon and Washington on a tour through the stunning landscapes of the Pacific Coast, Cascade Mountains, and Seattle.\n\nAlaska: Explore the untamed wilderness of Alaska's Denali National Park, take a glacier cruise, and watch for whales, brown coastal bears, and wolves on a wildlife adventure. Check out our collection of 7-10 day Alaska tours and explore the majesty of this unique destination.\n\nHawaii: Explore the beauty of Hawaii on a tour with visits to the top attractions, including the iconic Pearl Harbor and USS Arizona Memorial in Honolulu, the volcanic wonders of Hawaii Volcanoes National Park, and the pristine beaches of Maui, offering an unforgettable island experience. If you’re looking for a tour of the Hawaiian Islands, check out our collection of 7-15 day Hawaii tours and packages and book a tropical escape!\n\nSouthwestern United States\n\nArizona: Experience the Sonoran Desert 's unique landscapes, including Sedona's red rocks and the cultural richness of Tucson and Phoenix.\n\nNew Mexico: Explore Santa Fe's art scene, visit historic Taos Pueblo, and admire the dramatic landscapes of the state's desert and mountains.\n\nRocky Mountains and Western Canada\n\nMontana: Visit Montana to experience its breathtaking natural beauty, from the rugged Rocky Mountains to its pristine lakes. Montana boasts an array of top sites that showcase its stunning landscapes and rich heritage, including Glacier National Park with its pristine wilderness, Yellowstone National Park's geothermal wonders, the historic mining town of Butte, and the cultural hub of Missoula nestled amidst picturesque mountains.\n\nColorado: Enjoy outdoor adventures such as skiing in Aspen, hiking in Rocky Mountain National Park, and exploring the vibrant city of Denver.\n\nCanadian Rockies: The Canadian Rockies, with their towering peaks and serene lakes, await your discovery. Dive into the heart of nature at Banff National Park and soak in the tranquility of this UNESCO World Heritage site, Jasper National Park, and the iconic Lake Louise. Check out our collection of tours to Canada to see more.\n\nEastern North America\n\nEast Coast US States, New England: Travel to the East Coast of the USA and Canada to tour iconic cities, states, and provinces. Experience the charm of New England's coastal towns, fall foliage, and historic sites on tours that visit states like Massachusetts, Vermont, and Maine. Experience the vibrant pulse of New York with our guided tours, featuring iconic landmarks like Times Square, Central Park, and the Statue of Liberty, alongside insider insights into the city's rich cultural tapestry. Discover the historical treasures of Philadelphia on a guided tour, exploring iconic landmarks such as Independence Hall, the Liberty Bell, and the Philadelphia Museum of Art while immersing yourself in the city's rich cultural and revolutionary heritage.\n\nEastern Canada: Discover the hidden treasures of Eastern Canada, where history, art, and culture come together in perfect harmony. Travelers who want to explore the best of Eastern Canada most often visit the vibrant atmosphere of Quebec City, the oldest walled city in North America, and Montreal, the cultural capital of the province. Explore the Canadian Shield's rugged beauty, the Laurentian Mountains' stunning landscapes and the charming coastal towns of Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island. Eastern Canada is a world of endless possibilities waiting to be discovered.\n\nToronto and Ontario: Explore the cosmopolitan city of Toronto and the stunning landscapes of Ontario, including Niagara Falls, where you can witness the roaring power of this natural wonder and create lasting memories.\n\nCanadian Maritime Provinces: Explore the historic charm of Halifax and Nova Scotia, visit the iconic Peggy's Cove, discover the idyllic landscapes of Prince Edward Island, and immerse yourself in the vibrant cultural scene of St. John's, Newfoundland, creating memories in the heart of Canada's Atlantic coastline.\n\nSouthern United States\n\nLouisiana: Discover the unique culture, music, and cuisine of New Orleans, as well as the antebellum charm of plantation tours along the Mississippi River. Immerse yourself in the vibrant culture of the Big Easy with its iconic French Quarter, jazz music, and delicious Creole cuisine.\n\nTennessee: Experience the heart of country music in Nashville and visit famous attractions like the Grand Ole Opry and the Country Music Hall of Fame. Visit Graceland in Memphis to explore the iconic mansion, Elvis Presley's personal belongings, and various exhibits related to his music and legacy.\n\nMississippi: Explore the birthplace of blues music and visit historic sites like Clarksdale and the Highway 61 Blues Museum.\n\nFrequently Asked Questions About North America Guided Tours\n\nWhat destinations can I visit? \n\nNorth America offers a wide range of destinations, including major cities like New York, San Francisco, and Toronto, as well as natural wonders such as the Grand Canyon, Yellowstone National Park, and the Canadian Rockies.\n\nHow long do the guided tours typically last?\n\nTour durations vary widely, ranging from six to 20 days, depending on the specific itinerary.\n\nWhat is included in a North America guided tour package?\n\nInclusions vary by tour. All tours include transportation, accommodation, guided tours and activities, meals, and most admission fees to attractions. Be sure to check the specific tour details for a comprehensive list of inclusions.\n\nHow do I choose the right guided tour for me? \n\nConsider your interests, budget, and the destinations you want to visit. Research different locations, read reviews, and compare itineraries to find one that suits your preferences. You can also reach out to our team of Travel Specialists, who are here to help you find and plan the perfect North America guided tour.\n\nAre North America guided tours suitable for solo travelers?\n\nYes, many guided tours are open to solo travelers. You can join a group and meet fellow, like-minded travelers from around the world.\n\nIs travel insurance necessary? \n\nTravel Insurance is recommended to protect against unexpected events such as trip cancellations, medical emergencies, or lost luggage. We always suggest purchasing travel insurance for added peace of mind.\n\nWhat is the best time of year to visit?\n\nThe ideal time to tour North America is typically during the shoulder seasons of spring (March to May) and fall (September to November). These months offer pleasant weather, fewer crowds, and reasonable prices. Spring blooms with beauty, making it excellent for national parks and cultural exploration, while  fall showcases stunning foliage in the northeastern U.S. and Canada. However, the timing can vary by region. Summers (June to August) are great for outdoor activities and festivals but can be crowded. Winters (December to February) are perfect for skiing but bring cold weather up north.\n\nWhat are some must-see attractions/top sites? \n\nNorth America is a treasure trove of must-see attractions. The Grand Canyon in Arizona will leave you in awe with its immense natural beauty and stunning vistas, while Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming boasts geysers, hot springs, and abundant wildlife. The vibrant rhythms of New Orleans, with its jazz music and Creole cuisine, make it a cultural gem. The bustling streets of New York City offer iconic sights like Times Square, Central Park, and the Statue of Liberty, while San Francisco captivates with the Golden Gate Bridge and Alcatraz Island. Niagara Falls, a natural wonder shared between the USA and Canada, provides unforgettable views and experiences. Banff National Park in the Canadian Rockies has enchanting turquoise lakes and towering peaks.\n\nHow long should I spend on a tour in North America? \n\nA comprehensive tour of North America typically lasts around 3-4 weeks to cover major highlights, allowing for a few days in each major city and national park. However, if you have limited time, a focused tour of specific regions or cities can be enjoyable in 1-2 weeks. For instance, explore the northeastern U.S. in a week or enjoy a West Coast adventure in the same timeframe. The duration ultimately depends on your priorities and the depth of exploration you desire, but even a shorter trip can provide memorable experiences in this vast and diverse continent.\n\nHow many months in advance should I plan? \n\nWe recommend you plan your North America trip between 3 -10 months before you want to travel. Airlines don’t publish fares much further out than 10-11 months. You should look to book your vacation once you can lock in your flights. Luckily, we take care of all of that for you. If travelers want to go for a  special anniversary or event, they’ll book years in advance so they know they are all set and can let us handle it from there.\n\nWhy You Should Tour North America\n\nNorth America is a land of endless possibilities, with bustling cities, serene landscapes, and iconic destinations you won't find anywhere else. Whether you want to explore the vibrant culture and nightlife of New York, Los Angeles, or San Francisco, or discover the natural beauty of Banff National Park and Niagara Falls, there's something for everyone on our North America tours. Our local guides take you through the streets of their hometowns, revealing hidden gems and local secrets that you wouldn't find on your own. Don't miss out on this unforgettable experience - book your North America tour today!\n\nBack to Top"}
