{"title":"Vehicle rental News and Reporting Coverage | WRAL","author":"WRAL","date":"2019-03-05T21:32:44+00:00","main_content":"Vehicle rental News and Reporting Coverage | WRAL Stay up to date with WRAL’s Vehicle rental news and reporting coverage Renting a car could lead to your arrest NBC New York has exclusive body cam video of police drawing their guns on an innocent customer who rented a car in Manhattan. And as Chris Glorioso reports, she is not the first driver to experience a frightening, dangerous traffic stop because her rental was misclassified as stolen.  What to know about Turo, the app both trucks used in New Orleans and Las Vegas incidents came from New York (CNN) -- What is Turo, the car rental company linked to both the New Orleans attack and the Las Vegas Cybertruck explosion? By Clare Duffy, CNN Hertz CEO out following electric car 'horror show' New York (CNN) -- Trouble and turmoil continue at rental car company Hertz. By Chris Isidore, CNN Durham woman's rental car stolen using KIA challenge, Hertz tacks on erroneous charges A 5 On Your Side story uncovers the right way to rent a car and the importance of checking your agreement to know what is covered. Keely Arthur, WRAL consumer reporter Rental car theft caught on camera; Durham woman charged fees after the theft A Durham woman's rental car was stolen, and the company charged her hundreds for an extra day and late fees. How 5 On Your Side got her money back, and the protection you need before you rent a car. How Car Rentals Explain the 2021 Economy Few markets better crystallize the topsy-turvy nature of the American economy during the pandemic than the rental car business. Quoctrung Bui and Neil Irwin, New York Times 'Carpocalypse:' Car rental shortage spikes costs during travel season The current car rental shortage has caused countless summer travel headaches. If you haven't rented a car in a while, you may be shocked by the cost. Monica Laliberte, WRAL executive producer/5 On Your Side reporter Scammers are cashing in on rental car shortage When travel stopped last spring as the pandemic spread, rental companies sold excess cars that weren't in demand. Now that the demand has returned, rental prices are rising and scammers are trying to cash in. Monica Laliberte, WRAL executive producer/5 on Your Side reporter COVID-19 making it harder for travelers to get a rental car The pandemic has had big impacts on the travel industry and the rental car business has been heavily impacted. Pandemic chain reaction leaves rental cars in short supply If you're about to leave on a trip, don't assume a rental car will be available when you arrive.  Rick Armstrong, WRAL photojournalist RDU announces plan for $500 million update to ease congestion at the curb  The plan is for a consolidated rental car facility between Terminals 1 and 2, as well as access to ride share, taxi, shuttle and limousine services - basically all ground transportation other than private vehicles - to alleviate congestion at the terminals' curbside drop-off and pick-up. Decline the insurance on a car rental? Know terms are changing. For years, the recommendation on rental car insurance was to use coverage from a credit card or your personal auto policy and to decline the coverage offered by the rental agencies. But like so many other things, Consumer Reports says, that's changing!"}
