{"title":"What legal options do I have against a moving company (based in FL, storing our home goods in CA, we're in NYC) who has","author":null,"date":null,"main_content":"Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Hello, my name is***** am an attorney and am happy to help you today.   Please remember I can only provide general legal information and not specific legal advice because there is no attorney-client relationship between us. I am sorry to hear you are having some trouble, legal issues can be very frustrating.  Please give me a moment to review your question.  Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Well the moving company would be in breach of the contract so you could sue for breach and request monetary damage and/or specific performance (an order requiring them to transport your items).  Generally, before suing on this type of claim you would serve a demand letter. An attorney could draft this for you or you can draft it yourself.  You identify the breach and demand they transport your items by a specific time period (5-10 business days for example).  Advise them if they fail to comply, you will pursue legal action against them.  That is often enough to resolve an issue because companies want to avoid litigation but if they are unresponsive- you may have to file suit. Customer Thank you, ***** ***** what sort of monetary damage can I sue for? For instance, could I sue them not only for the amount we paid them but also the cost of hiring alternate movers?  Ashley Paige Esq, Expert You're very welcome.  If you hired alternate movers that were more expensive you could sue the original company for the amount you paid them plus the difference with the new movers.  For example if the original movers were 10k and the new movers were 12k - you can sue the original company for reimbursement of the 10 and then an additional 2k to put you in the same position you were in prior to entering into the agreement.  If you also incurred any additional expenses- rentals, storage costs anything like that that can also be included. Customer Could you clarify what you mean by \"put you in the same position you were in prior to entering the agreement\"? Customer Also, the movers were selected by a broker. If the movers breach their contract, doesn't that mean the brokers didn't honor their agreement, so I could put a stop-payment on what I initially paid them?  Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Meaning you cannot get a windfall.  If you were originally going to pay 10k for the moving, you still have to pay that amount - putting you in the position you would be in had the company complied.  You cannot recover 22k (10k on their contract plus 12k for new movers) from the original movers using my above example.  Does that make sense?  Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Yes you could - the broker would likely in turn sue the movers but yes you could potentially file a claim against them as well. Customer I believe so, yes. So for instance, if we originally paid the movers 2K lets say, and the new movers cost 6K, we could sue for the original 2K and the 4K difference, correct? Customer What would additional expenses look like? For instance, could we sue for hotel and meal charges for the time it takes for our goods to arrive (if we hired additional movers) or until the original movers moved our goods?  Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Yes, correct.  If you had to stay in a hotel due to your belongings not arriving on time yes you could add those charges (but only for the dates after the 30 days)  Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Do you have any additional follow up questions I can assist you with? Customer Thank you. Very helpful. Let me think if I have additional questions. Customer Ah, yes, if I pursued the legal route, I would charge the movers in the small claims court of the state they are located in?  Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Correct yes. Customer The DOT says that I should file a claim prior to pursuing legal avenues. Is this necessary? Can the demand letter take its place?  Ashley Paige Esq, Expert No the demand letter is not an official claim.  So you could serve the demand letter and/or file a claim with the DOT if that is what they advised. Customer I'm not sure how that would work, as the demand letter would try and prompt the movers to get us our goods in ten days (say), but the I think the DOT gives the company something like 30 days to acknowledge the claim then 120 days to respond to it (which, obviously, we don't want to wait for). Customer Yeah, it's not clear from the DOT site if we MUST file a claim (to pursue legal action) or if we SHOULD.  Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Well I would say given the potential delay going through the DOT, serve the demand letter and then proceed with a lawsuit if necessary.  You are not required to file with the DOT. Customer If we pressed in small claims court, could we hire a lawyer to represent us or would we have to be in person (since we're in NYC and they are in FL)?  Ashley Paige Esq, Expert Yes given you are out of state, hiring an attorney would be best. If that explains everything to your satisfaction, I wish you the best of luck resolving this and getting your belongings. Take care and have a great week! If you have additional questions, you can save me as a favorite under your account or ask them directly to me here:https://www.justanswer.com/law/expert-ashleypaigeesq Please make sure you type \"For Ashley Paige Esq. only\" to ensure the question is directed at me. A positive rating for my answer and service is always appreciated. And thank you for using JustAnswer. Customer Thank you for your time, Ashley! I'll reach out if I have additional questions.  Ashley Paige Esq, Expert You're very welcome, happy to help.  Ok great."}
