{"title":"Rayon","author":null,"date":null,"main_content":"Discover Rayon today The effortless CAD AI-powered drawing for interior designers and architects. Discover Rayon Meet our customers Style and Annotation Turn precise  into splendid. From technical wireframes to rich drawing sets: level-up your work using custom styles, annotations, and much more. try it for free Export and Import Work with the files you have,  Produce the documents you need. Open the file you already have, and produce any kind of documents from PDF drawing sets, to schedules, or DWG exports. try it for free  Collaboration Gather your team,  work together in realtime. Comment, doodle, and follow up right where you design. Working with others finally becomes simple. try it for free  SchedulesList the items you use, and create tables for procurement, budgeting or anything else. Table 2 Item Brand Reference Available? Chair Ikea IK8967 Yes Couch Knoll KN3067 No Armchair Kartell KA8967 No Desk Ikea IK3467 Yes Chair,Brown Ikea IK2167 Yes Light Ikea IK2567 Yes The Rayon effect Just work better,  with Rayon. Draft at lightning speed with Rayon and watch your designs come to life faster than ever! try it for free Testimonials Why they all  chose Rayon. As an architect, Rayon allows me to exchange with my colleagues, whether they are architects or not. I can advise them directly in the app. Rayon truly is a time saver! When I create a new proposal for my clients, Rayon helps me work 2 to 3 times faster than I used to, while creating much more professional looking plans! With Rayon, I've simplified the creation of plan layouts. I can provide my customers with high-quality documents much quicker than any other solution on the market. Rayon is the approachable, user-friendly, all-in-one version of what we used to do yesterday using AutoCAD, InDesign, and Illustrator. Rayon is the ultimate one-stop solution for architectural drawing and presentation. It is a brilliant, efficient tool for designing, styling, and presenting. Rayon has quickly become our go-to application for floor plans. The ability to convert PDF files into editable floor plans has saved us countless hours. Rayon enables me to design professional-grade floor plans, and to communicate them to my customers in an instant. Rayon is a really intuitive software for interior designers that condenses all the features of legacy software into a simpler, more affordable and more efficient offering; with it, the time I save can go into improving the quality of my drawing sets."}
