{"title":"Web and Mobile Apps Explained in Simple Terms","author":null,"date":"2023-01-31T06:44:11+00:00","main_content":"A web app, short for a web application, is a software application that is accessed over the internet using a web browser. Unlike traditional desktop applications, which are installed on a user’s computer, web apps run on a web server and are accessed over the internet. \n Web apps are typically written in languages such as JavaScript, HTML, and CSS, and can be built using web development frameworks such as Angular, React, Vue.js, etc. They can be designed to run on any device with a web browser, including computers, smartphones, and tablets. \n Web apps can be divided into two main categories: static web apps and dynamic web apps. Static web apps are pre-built pages that are delivered to the user’s browser when they request them. These apps are simple, easy to build and maintain, but may be limited in functionality. Dynamic web apps, on the other hand, are built using a server-side language such as Python, Ruby, or PHP, and they can interact with a database to retrieve and store data. Some dynamic web apps could be very complex and can use Java-based frameworks like Spring or SpringBoot. They are more complex and powerful than static web apps and can offer a more interactive and personalized user experience. \n Examples of web apps include online shopping platforms, email clients, social media platforms, and productivity tools such as Google Docs. \n Mobile App \n A mobile app, short for mobile application, is a software application that is designed to run on a mobile device such as a smartphone or tablet. Mobile apps are typically built using programming languages such as Swift for iOS and Java for Android, and they are distributed through app stores such as the Apple App Store and Google Play. \n There can be different categorizations of mobile apps based on the way they are developed. \n A mobile app written in a specific programming language to work on a particular Operating system is called a  Native App .  \n At times a web app can have its frontend designed in a responsive way so that it can adapt to various screen sizes and devices easily. These  mobile web apps  can be accessed from an internet browser window. It does not require any installation process to use the app. Sometimes the differences between a native app and a mobile web app can be blurred as both the native and web apps have almost the same features and responsive nature. \n There is another category of  Hybrid apps  that combines the best of both native and web apps. The hybrid apps are written using HTML, Javascript, and CSS web technologies and work across devices running different OSs. \n Progressive Web Apps (PWAs) are extensions of the website that can be saved on devices and used like an app. PWAs use web browser APIs and functionalities to bring a native app-like experience across devices.  \n Each type of mobile app described above has its own pros and cons. Which of these types is most suitable for you to build depends on the various factors like requirements of the business, features, and purpose of the app. \n In general, mobile apps may differ from web apps in several ways: \n \n Platform: Mobile apps are designed to run on specific mobile operating systems (such as iOS or Android), whereas web apps are designed to run on any device with a web browser. \n Installation: Mobile apps need to be installed on a device, whereas web apps can be accessed directly from a web browser. \n Offline functionality: Mobile apps can be used offline, whereas web apps require an internet connection to function. \n Access to device hardware: Mobile apps have access to the device’s hardware, such as the camera, GPS, and microphone, which can be used to provide additional functionality. \n Push notifications: Mobile apps can send push notifications to users, whereas web apps cannot. \n \n Examples of mobile apps include games, social media platforms, navigation apps, and shopping apps."}
