{"title":"Top 5 Data Analytics Trends in 2025","author":"Brahmajeet Desai","date":"2024-12-30T08:39:01+00:00","main_content":"Quick Read\n\nData analytics trends like edge computing that will reshape business in 2025.\n\nThe role of agentic AI in hyper-personalized data storytelling.\n\nHow confidential computing and homomorphic encryption will strengthen data governance.\n\nThe potential of unstructured data and small language models for faster and more efficient data exploration.\n\n2025 is here, and data leaders can no longer keep AI innovation at bay while making critical decisions. As anticipated, AI-inspired tech is already firmly entrenched in business strongholds. If 2024 was an inflection point for its rampant adoption, this coming year will see newer ways of embedding artificial intelligence into every facet of modern enterprises.\n\nMoreover, the explosion of Gen AI-driven BI tools and growing demand for real-world context in their outputs has instigated more focus on self-service analytics. Data-driven insights can’t stay isolated in their halls of ivy. Data scientists and analysts need to ensure that data is available to every user within the organization without qualms about the usability of tools deployed for this purpose. This year, we’ll also see an uptick in the way insights are generated, handled and distributed among teams and departments.\n\nHere are some trends that might reshape the way enterprises use data.\n\nEdge Analytics Will Gain More Edge\n\nAs edge computing brings data processing and analytics closer to the source, real-time insights from streaming data in split seconds are not a distant possibility anymore. With this, data doesn’t need to travel across an extensive network to be stored in a central location. It’s rather analyzed right where it’s created. This not only eliminates latency but also enables faster analytics on streaming data at a much lesser bandwidth usage.\n\nThe technology facilitates Internet of Things (IoT) devices and autonomous systems to work in tandem, decentralizing analytics and reducing overall operations costs. The trend will see a further boost in 2025, with TinyML—machine learning programs that allow neural network models to run on smaller IoT devices—enabling on-device analysis of sensor data.\n\nAgentic AI Will Boost Hyper-Personalization\n\nThe rise of agentic systems has opened a new chapter in AI evolution—where autonomous AI agents can handle almost any operation with zero human intervention. These systems can ingest vast data volumes from any source to perform complex multistep analytics with ease.\n\nAgentic AI brings machine learning algorithms, traditional coding rules, deep learning, reinforcement learning and versatile large language models (LLMs) together to showcase near-human cognition. Unlike broad-brush autonomous systems, these agents can make decisions, take proactive actions, and interact with external users without a glitch. They continuously learn from the data they were trained on, real-time information and user behaviors to improve and personalize their outputs.\n\nImagine a customer service department where AI agents don’t just answer pre-fed responses to user queries but also take action to solve their problems like a human does. The future is nothing short of a sci-fi scenario, where a personal AI assistant can negotiate the best policy terms with the AI agent of an insurance company or predict ice cream flavors preferred by a customer.\n\nIn the same vein, fully automated BI platforms powered by conversational AI agents will ensure hyper-personalization of data storytelling. Instead of focusing on generic factors like demographics, these systems can provide highly individualized and context-rich experiences using ML, NLP and real-time advanced analytics. They can learn from past interactions to anticipate user needs and present insights as intuitive and dynamic narratives. These insights can be further customized for different user roles in a preferred visual format, be it graphs, dashboards or text-based summaries—all while adapting individual communication routines and tonality of the users.\n\nConfidential Computing and Homomorphic Encryption Will Make Inroads\n\nWith AI-based analytics gaining center stage, it’s necessary to scaffold the learning mechanisms of the underlying tech for its responsible applications. One way to do so can be confidential computing via a trusted execution environment within a CPU. This refers to the isolation of data in a secure ecosystem at the time of processing. Enclaves inside the CPU protect data when it’s used for ML computations and analytics, in a highly compliant and privacy-protected manner. The data is accessible only to authorized codes.\n\nHomomorphic encryption allows for analyzing or processing encrypted data without exposing or decrypting it. Data remains secure and encrypted even when executing AI models or extracting insights on the cloud, thus preserving its integrity at every step.\n\nLet’s understand with an example: when someone searches for a pet shop near them, this search triggers data sharing with third-party applications and platforms. This includes information about the search terms used, the whereabouts of the user, the exact time of the search and so on. Homomorphic encryption protects any trickle of this information toward unwanted parties, ensuring top-notch privacy protection. Needless to say, this technology has huge potential for bringing transformational changes in the financial, healthcare and IT sectors.\n\nThough both these technologies might not suffice individually to ensure the level of governance most users seek, they can be the proverbial ‘silver bullet’ when working together. In 2025 and years beyond, this combination will move a step ahead of data encryption, ensuring security when data is in use, at rest and in transit.\n\nUnstructured and Semi-Structured Data Will Change the Game\n\nEvery year, organizations make massive investments in organizing and analyzing structured data. However, they’re still not tapping into the entirety of the data they gather. A Gartner report states that 80-90% of all the enterprise data generated every year is in semi-structured or unstructured formats—images, PDFs, text, videos, voice, etc. Stats from IDC further say that only 10% of the total data volumes get stored, and even less is analyzed.\n\nNext year, we’ll see more focus shifting toward a unified approach in modern data stacks to drive AI innovations and advanced analytics on structured, semi-structured and unstructured data. Data workers will be able to stitch together all these different formats for faster, more accurate analytics. Generative AI, on top of it, will add self-serve capability to access, organize and use this untapped information to its full extent.\n\nKyvos has already made giant strides in this direction with a semantic layer that unifies the entirety of enterprise data into a common platform. Then, it allows conversational analytics on this data using Gen AI features where users can not only ask simple questions but also run fast, context-rich data dialogs. They can backtrack to any previous question, get cues to ask the most relevant question next, refer to questions asked earlier by other users and even share their workflows with other teams or departments.\n\nSmall Language Models Will Get Traction\n\nNot all AI, BI and analytics functions thrive on large language models. Processing hundreds of billions or trillions of parameters might not be the way to go when organizations need Gen AI capabilities for specific domains or use cases, such as customer service bots, content summarization, sentiment analysis, and edge analytics on small IoT devices. Faster and more targeted analytics, in these cases, hinge upon the speed and efficiency of underlying foundational models.\n\nEnter small language models or SLMs. These are compressed versions of LLMs and have a compact architecture that needs fewer computational resources. Though LLMs serve as the starting points for building SLMs, the latter is trained on an extensively focused dataset to offer tailored capabilities for any business domain. Moreover, due to their smaller size, they are more responsive, cost-effective, faster and adaptable for real-time applications like chatbots.\n\nGoing forward, the industry will not only witness a growth in the adoption of SLMs but also see optimized hybrid AI patterns with smaller models running on edge computing devices and LLMs on larger cloud deployments.\n\nHonorable Mentions\n\nThough not exactly new or upcoming, significant uptrends are anticipated in the way organizations utilize data fabric architectures and augmented analytics in 2025. While the former allows uninterrupted access to all data environments, the latter leverages NLP and ML to automate the complete analytics pipeline from data preparation to insights discovery, delivering faster context-rich insights.\n\nBoth are fairly well-known technologies that have been around for some years now. However, they will morph into mainstays for the industry in the future. For example, metadata-driven data fabric may catch more of the spotlight by learning from the patterns in it to facilitate faster data discovery, stronger governance and improved data quality.\n\nLooking Ahead\n\nIf 2024 proclaimed the supremacy of Gen AI-powered analytics, 2025 will take it to the next level. We’re talking of a future where users need not train on any BI tool to answer complex business questions. With just a simple natural language question, they will get all the information they seek. This will come with an assurance of accuracy and no worries about the security of sensitive information used to generate the responses.\n\nKyvos is already higher up this ladder with advanced conversational analytics. Our out-of-the-box Gen AI capabilities powered by a semantic layer allow seamless data dialogs with near-human cognition and industry-best 90%+ accuracy.\n\nContact our experts to learn more about our offerings and get more insights into how we deliver faster, more scalable and cost-effective analytics to everyone."}
