{"title":"Are Online Accounting Certifications Worth It in 2026?","author":"Edgewood College","date":"2024-07-28T05:10:10+00:00","main_content":"In today’s complex and highly regulated business environment, succeeding in accounting requires specialized skills and expertise. While a bachelor’s degree is essential for entry-level roles, those seeking to maximize their career potential often consider advanced education.\n\nContinuing your studies demonstrates commitment to the field and enables you to gain a deeper grasp of accounting theory and practice. Those with advanced training stand out when it comes to earning promotions, leadership roles, and higher salaries over the long term. Read on to know more. \n\nAccounting Certifications Online\n\nAccounting certifications can provide an edge by demonstrating specialized skills. Earning credentials like Certified Public Accountant (CPA), Certified Management Accountant (CMA), and Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) qualifies professionals for more advanced roles and higher salaries. \n\nPursuing certifications online offers flexibility. Programs allow working adults to complete the curriculum independently outside work hours. Reputable online platforms provide affordable access to accounting certification training and exam prep for career advancement. With rigorous preparation, e-learning certifications enable professionals to enhance their expertise.\n\nFocusing Your Studies in Accounting\n\nPursuing a master’s program in accounting, such as a Master of Science (MS), allows professionals to specialize their skills and knowledge further. This degree provides focused education in areas like financial accounting, managerial accounting, assurance services, federal taxation, information systems, and accounting ethics.\n\nThe advanced coursework in an MS in Accounting enables students to enhance technical abilities and soft skills in communication, critical thinking, and problem-solving. Specialized electives also allow tailoring the program to align with career goals like public accounting, corporate accounting, government work, or advisory services.\n\nA Master of Science in Accounting degree elevates performance in current roles and equips professionals to pursue leadership positions, higher salaries, and advanced certifications. The combination of educational credentials and work experience prepares candidates to excel.\n\nFinding the Right Program\n\nJust as each accounting career path is unique, MS in Accounting programs vary. It’s important to research options thoroughly to find the best fit.\n\nLook for ACBSP-accredited programs that produce graduates prepared to succeed in today’s competitive environment. Exam pass rates, career services, experienced faculty, and alumni outcomes should also be considered.\n\nSome students appreciate the networking and immersive experience of full-time on-campus programs. Others need the flexibility of online or part-time options that allow working while earning their degree. There are formats suitable for all schedules and situations.\n\nInvesting in a Master of Science in Accounting is an excellent way for accounting professionals to expand their opportunities. With specialized skills and credentials, doors open to take on higher-level responsibilities and maximize earning potential.\n\nConclusion \n\nWhether pursuing accounting certifications online or an advanced degree, dedicated professionals can continue building expertise to advance their careers.\n\nEdgewood University offers an ACBSP-accredited Master of Science in Accounting. With a tailored curriculum and flexible learning formats, their program helps accounting students gain the advanced skills and credentials for career success.\n\nVisit Edgewood’s website or call an admissions counselor today to learn more about its MS Accounting degree and how it can help you achieve your professional goals. Investing in a graduate accounting education from an established local school like Edgewood University can be the next step toward maximizing your opportunities."}
