{"title":"[:fr]L’Œil de la photographie - Actualité Photographie - Événements Photo[:en]The Eye of Photography - Photography Art news and events[:]","author":"L'Œil de la Photographie","date":"2015-05-29T16:46:25+00:00","main_content":"Latest news\n\nSurface Code Žilvinas Kropas should be considered an exceptional creator of experimental photography. There is probably no photographic technique that the artist would not want to try. Not only he experiments with the medium of photography, but he also develops a methodical and unique artistic language. By combining techniques and searching for compositional harmony, Kropas creates a world we have never seen before. In his visual narrative, we only partially…\n\nWe're embarking for a new year. We want to experience it with you. Subscriptions are what keep The Eye of Photography alive. Subscriptions are what measure its audience and impact. Subscriptions are what give it its independence, its freedom of choice and voice. You, through your loyalty, make this adventure possible, an adventure that began fifteen years ago, now boasting over 40,000 articles and 400,000 images gathered in unique archives…\n\nIn its beginning. earth was fractured, frail with coveting, and could not wait for us – so, flailing in the muscled clutch of grace, we blessed this sullen place. As we were born and born again, in tenements and lush, exuberant savannas, flung from hips of southern silver, lifted into life while mamas shrieked and swore, as we were born and born again, emphatic, snared within our thrash and wail,…\n\nHenry Horenstein’s latest book, Miles and Miles of Texas features a collection of nearly 100 photographs that Henry has taken throughout Texas, mostly between 2021-2024, with some from years past. Texas has been a continual source of inspiration for Henry during his 50- year career, and these pictures reflect the people, places, and culture that make Texas so unique. Henry has made his name as a documentary photographer, and he…\n\nThese are images that take you by surprise and leave a lasting impression. They are not easy to predict, but they do require viewers to pay close attention and be committed. You can see this for yourself by visiting the Jeff Wall: Photographs exhibition at Gallerie d’Italia – Turin. Although they may seem real at first, they actually represent something very similar to reality. Spanning over 40 years, his work…\n\nRelease by Éditions Florentin of 80’S Paris Night - Top Models & Divas by Foc Kan. “An evening without Foc is not a successful evening!” writes Frédéric Beigbeder in the book’s preface. Foc Kan roamed the Parisian nightclubs throughout the 1980s and 1990s to capture their creative and festive intensity. Rare, glamorous and refreshing moments that allow us to meet again icons such as Claudia Schiffer, Naomi Campbell, Carla Bruni,…\n\nArchives - December 19, 2022 In the spring of 2022, two Parisian exhibitions dialogued, intensely, without those in charge (artist, curator, gallery owner, etc.) perhaps being aware of it. These are Les Fantômes d'Orsay by Sophie Calle, at the Musée d'Orsay, and L'Esprit des lieux by Charles Matton, at the Dumonteil Contemporary gallery. Some time later, Sylvie Matton sent us this text. It's great and we're publishing it today. JJN…\n\nArchives - December 19, 2022 This is a really a nice piece of work. 534 photographs in this Breton \"bible\" of heritage photography. I picked 34 of them for you, somewhat at random from the different parts of the book. You have 500 left to discover, relive, challenge. The text supports this very rich iconography to allow those who can neither know nor imagine that: \"...in those days...\". How many…\n\nI first met Natascha Stellmach on the occasion of her solo show, I Don’t Have a Gun in 2013 at WAGNER + PARTNER gallery in Berlin. It was also when she first performed THE LETTING GO, which already caught my eye back then. In view of her upcoming book and future exhibitions, it’s my pleasure today to share more about Stellmach’s inspiration and way of celebrating this unique project and…\n\nGalerie Hoang Belli presents the exhibition She Knows the Rain Before It Falls by Douce d’Ivry; it is accompanied by the following text. She Knows the Rain Before It Falls is an experimental and intimate photographic series that explores our relationship to living beings, bringing together the female body with insects, reptiles and amphibians. The images stage creatures that are often considered repulsive or insignificant: snails, frogs, beetles, snakes, earthworms,…\n\nLa Contemporaine in Nanterre presents an international overview of the history of photomontage, from the First World War to the eve of Photoshop. The exhibition “Couper, coller, imprimer: le photomontage politique au XXe siècle” covers the whole of the twentieth century, a period that is rarely considered in its entirety. Its originality also lies in the way it combines political history and the history of graphic forms. It invites…"}
