{"title":"Meet the Interior Designers on the AD100 2025 List","author":"The Editors of AD","date":"2024-12-04T13:00:00+00:00","main_content":"These talented studios are working at the forefront of interior design and decoration today Penthouse apartment in West Village, designed by Virginia Tupker. The living room in a London townhouse of Beata Heuman. Inside a Brooklyn Heights project by Redd Kaihoi. The primary bath at a California home of Commune Design. The guest room of a Peruvian manse designed by Carlos Mota.  The living room at Anne Crawford's Ojai home, designed by RP Miller. The guest bedroom at the Waldorf Astoria, designed by Josh Greene Design. Casa Valle, Studio Giancarlo Valle's new gallery located in Tribeca, New York. An Upper East Side mansion project by Alyssa Kapito. The dining table in La Sombra, a Los Angeles project by Nickey Kehoe Design Studio. A newly completed Hollywood Regency-style home with Mediterranean details in the Pacific Palisades, designed by Mark D. Sikes Interior Design. A bedroom inside the Pacific Palisades project by Pierce & Ward. The Ace Toronto lobby, designed by Studio and Projects. The Terrace House, a private residence in Melbourne, Australia, designed by Flack Studio in 2024. Lauren Santo Domingo's home in Jackson Hole designed by Studio Mellone LLC The formal dining room of a California home designed by Nicole Hollis.  Boutique Cartier Azabudai Hills in Tokyo, designed by Laura Gonzalez. The living room of a historic Greenwich, Connecticut, home designed by Corey Damen Jenkins & Associates. In the library of a Hudson Valley residence by Martin Brule. A Brooklyn Heights town house by Billy Cotton. In the Brooklyn home of Robert Stilin. Bryan O'Sullivan's collection showroom. A Casiraghi-designed residential project in Miami Beach.  Clements Design's Palm Beach project. The Upper East Side home of E.J. Camp and Laura Weil features artwork by E.J. Camp and is designed by Romanek Design Studio. A chalet in Gstaad, Switzerland, designed by Jake Arnold. The interior of Rose Uniacke’s Coach House in London. Williamsburg, Brooklyn project by Years. The Masonic Project, a San Francisco residence completed in 2024 by Geremia Design. A Santa Ynez, California, residence designed by Hallworth Design. Young Projects's Wonderland residence in Laurel Canyon, Los Angeles. A 3,000-square-foot historic 4-bedroom home, built in 1840 and located in New York’s Lower Hudson Valley, designed by Heidi Caller. Designer Ross Cassidy designs a private residence in Hidden Hills, California,  for an LA restaurateur.  Ryan Murphy's Hollywood headquarters, designed by Jeremiah Brent Design.  Broadwick Soho restaurant of design firm MBDS. Westchester, NY residence featuring artwork by Damien Hirst, designed by Joy Moyler Interiors. A Philadelphia townhouse designed by S.R. Gambrel, Inc. A Malibu home designed by Oliver M. Furth. JNcQUOI Deli Comporta, a restaurant project by JPDemeyer&Co. Campbell Brown’s Manhattan Penthouse by Julie Hillman. Neal Beckstedt’s house in Sag Harbor, New York. Kelly Behun’s Manhattan apartment. The Beach Cottage in Kauai, Hawaii, designed by The Office of Charles de Lisle, was completed in 2023. Ken Fulk transformed a Silicon Valley home. The UN Plaza Residence by Leyden Lewis Design Firm. Lily Dierkes' design for Erik and Casey Waldin's home on Fishers Island, New York. Bar des Prés - Montaigne in Paris, conceived by Studio KO. The library of David Biral and Elena Santiago's home in Sherman Oaks, California, designed by Mandy Cheng Design. A Montecito, California, project by Marmol Radziner.  Seating area of an Upper East Side apartment designed by Ryan Lawson, photo by Sarah Anne Johnson. The atelier table in the outdoor dining room of RuPaul's Beverly Hills home, designed by Martyn Lawrence Bullard Design.\" The entryway of the New York farmhouse designed by Monique Gibson. A view of the living room inside Amanda Ross' Hampton home, designed by Muriel Brandolini.  The Carrara marble tub in the primary bathroom of Ray Romano’s La Quinta, California residence, designed by Nate Berkus. The Den Room in Office of BC’s Los Angeles St. Ives project. A Washington, Connecticut, project by Sachs Lindores, completed in September 2024. The Southampton Breakfast Room, designed by Markham Roberts Inc. The Desert Palisades project in Palm Springs, CA by Woods and Dangaran. The exterior of Oliver Freundlich Design’s Montauk project. An Upper East Side residence in New York City by Yellow House Architects. Inside the restaurant Da Costa, designed by Laplace & Co. A villa on the Neapolitan Gulf by Studio Peregalli Sartori. Palazzo Quai de Béthune, Paris, completed in 2021 by Vincenzo De Cotiis. The Maui House in Hawaii was helmed by Design Principal Tom Kundig, FAIA, RIBA of Olson Kundig. The UWS Town House by Young Huh Interior Design, August 2024.  Pierre Yovanovitch Mobilier Gallery in New York. The Burlingame project in California, completed in 2023, was designed by Reath Design. Rita Konig Ltd's London residence project. The guest bath in a French Norman home designed by Atelier AM. Inside Eynsham Baths, the spa at Estelle Manor, designed by Roman & Williams.  Sally Breer World’s project in Los Angeles, California. Artwork by Danny Blvck is featured in the living room of a Grayslake, IL, residence designed by Tiffany Brooks in 2023. The dining area of the Plaza Residence in New York City, designed by Sara Story Design and styled by Mieke ten Have. The primary bedroom and bath of a 2023 project in Water Mill, New York, designed by Sawyer | Berson. The American Boathouse restoration and design project by Schafer Buccellato Architects. The dining table at Shawn's New York City apartment. The living area of a historic upstate New York home designed by Sheila Bridges Design. The facade of the James Island project in Charleston, South Carolina, by Steven Harris Architects. LA residence by Studio Shamshiri featuring 'The Poppy Field at Argenteuil' by Vik Muniz, 2005. Interior from Jeffrey Sellers Manhattan town house by Studio Volpe. The Guild Hall Theater in East Hampton, New York, completed by Peter Pennoyer Architects in 2024. The Hammer Museum Store in Los Angeles, CA, designed by The Archers."}
