{"title":"Web Design Trends 2025: Tips and Examples to Stay Competitive","author":"Stan Murash","date":"2025-10-03T00:00:00+00:00","main_content":"Marketing design\n\n15\n\nmin read\n\nTable of contents\n\nTL;DR\n\nWeb design in 2025 is all about creating smarter, more human digital experiences. This guide breaks down 10 key trends (plus the classics still going strong) to help you design websites that feel fresh, functional, and future-ready.\n\nWeb design is at the heart of the digital experience, shaping how site visitors interact with brands and absorb information. As we approach 2025, the design landscape continues to evolve, driven by new technologies, changing user expectations, and the growing need for accessibility and sustainability.\n\nThe latest web design trends are not merely aesthetic shifts but a reflection of deeper technological advancements and behavioral patterns. From AI-powered personalization to eco-friendly practices, current trends are transforming websites into dynamic, engaging, and purpose-driven platforms.\n\nUnderstanding these trends is essential for designers, marketers, and businesses looking to create memorable digital experiences that foster human connection. Whether you’re redesigning an existing site or starting fresh, knowing what’s on the horizon ensures your project remains relevant and competitive.\n\nIn this article, we’ll explore the top web design trends for 2025, offering actionable insights and inspiring examples. \n\n1. AI-powered personalization\n\nArtificial intelligence has revolutionized various industries, and web design is no exception. In 2025, AI-powered personalization will move from being a nice-to-have feature to an essential component of modern websites. By analyzing user behavior, preferences, and interactions, AI enables websites to create highly personalized and engaging experiences.\n\nToday, advanced algorithms can track how users interact with a site and use that data to make real-time decisions. For instance, a travel platform might spotlight cheap flights for frequent flyers, while someone browsing vacation ideas sees beach getaways front and center. Chatbots now use natural language processing to respond to users like a helpful concierge, and predictive tools surface content users haven’t even thought to look for yet.\n\nA great example is Amazon. Its recommendation engine analyzes your browsing history, purchase patterns, and even the time of day you shop to suggest products you’re more likely to buy. It’s seamless, relevant, and effective, and it keeps users coming back.\n\nA handful of tools are powering this revolution. Adobe Sensei helps designers create smarter, more intuitive content. Platforms like Dynamic Yield and Personyze take personalization even further by analyzing massive datasets to optimize what each user sees at scale, thereby increasing visual interest.\n\nWhat does this all lead to? Better engagement, more conversions, and happier users who feel like your website design was made just for them — with website design for SEO and strong website speed metrics ensuring they actually find and enjoy it.\n\nIf you want to implement AI personalization to improve website performance, follow these steps:\n\n1. Start with simple personalization features, such as recommended content based on browsing history.\n2. Use heatmaps and user analytics to identify patterns and design accordingly.\n3. Regularly update algorithms to stay relevant and prevent data biases.\n\n2. Immersive 3D elements\n\nFlat design is giving way to something far more engaging — 3D. As we move into 2025, immersive 3D elements, along with geometric shapes,  are no longer reserved for gaming or architecture. They’re becoming mainstream, helping brands tell stories, explain products, and guide users through interactive journeys.\n\nWith 3D, users can explore a product in a more immersive way. One standout example is a Nike site, where users could rotate and zoom in on a 3D sneaker model, examining every detail and customizing it for themselves. \n\nIf you’re thinking of adding 3D elements to your site, keep in mind a common rule: less is more. You shouldn’t turn your website into a video game, but to create meaningful moments that enhance the user experience. Whether it’s a product demo, a data visualization, or a virtual walkthrough, every 3D element should have a purpose.\n\nPerformance matters as well. 3D can slow down your site if not handled properly, especially on mobile. To avoid that, optimize assets, use lazy loading, and test your site on different devices. And finally, give users control. Let them rotate, zoom, hover, or click. When users can engage directly, the experience becomes much more memorable.\n\nFor creating 3D experiences, you can rely on the next tools:\nWebGL: A JavaScript API enabling real-time 3D rendering in browsers.\nThree.js: A framework that simplifies the creation of 3D graphics on the web.\nSpline: A design tool that helps create and animate 3D scenes for websites with minimal coding.\n\nAs 3D technologies become more accessible, businesses of all sizes can harness their potential. The immersive and interactive nature of 3D design is set to redefine how websites engage and retain users in 2025.\n\n3. Sustainable web design\n\nSustainability is becoming a crucial consideration in web design, reflecting a broader global emphasis on environmental responsibility for website visitors. Sustainable web design focuses on reducing the environmental impact of digital products by minimizing energy consumption, optimizing resources, and promoting ethical practices.\n\nWith websites accounting for significant energy use due to data transfer and server demands, the push for greener solutions is more critical than ever. And Patagonia reflects this. The outdoor clothing brand applies sustainability everywhere, including its website design. With fast load times, minimalistic visuals, and clean code, their online presence reflects the same values they promote offline.\n\nSo, what does sustainable design actually look like in practice? It starts with performance. Compressing images, reducing video autoplay, and using lazy loading ensure your website loads faster and consumes less energy. Hosting matters too — green hosting providers like GreenGeeks use renewable energy, making sure your website doesn’t leave an unnecessary footprint.\n\nSimplicity plays a huge role. Clean layouts, timeless aesthetics, and minimal code reduce the strain on devices and servers alike. It also means your site won’t need a full redesign every year, as modular systems allow for incremental updates, saving resources and time.\n\nIt’s also worth noting that this shift has a great influence on websites. Greener websites perform better. They’re faster, more SEO-friendly, and cost less to host. On top of that, today’s users, especially Gen Z and Millennials, actively support brands that align with their values. \n\nOnce you want to join the list of sustainable websites, use these tips:\nTry on website carbon calculator. With its help, you can analyze the carbon footprint of your website.\nRely on sustainable web design practices by Tom Greenwood. For a fee, this guidebook offers practical insights and strategies.\nLeverage metrics from PageSpeed Insights. This free tool helps you identify and address performance issues your website may encounter.\n\nAs digital consumption continues to rise, sustainable web design trend offers a pathway for businesses to minimize their ecological impact while enhancing user experience. In 2025, adopting these practices will demonstrate corporate responsibility and position brands as leaders in a growing global movement.\n\n4. Voice User Interface (VUI) integration\n\nVoice User Interfaces (VUIs) are transforming the way people interact with technology. As voice assistants like Alexa, Siri, and Google Assistant become household staples, websites are adapting to meet the growing demand for voice-activated features. \n\nWhether it’s asking for a product, finding a piece of information, or navigating a site hands-free, VUIs open the door to faster, more accessible digital experiences. They’re especially helpful for users with visual impairments or motor challenges, and can also delight visitors who are multitaskers wanting to shop or search on the go.\n\nSome businesses are already tapping into this potential. For example, Domino’s Pizza “Dom” voice assistant allows users to order pizza via voice through their app. It’s a great case of VUI making the checkout process faster and hands-free.\n\nThe beauty of VUIs is in their convenience. But to make them work, they need to feel natural. That means designing with real human speech in mind — simple phrases, clear feedback, and always a backup plan for users who prefer touch or typing.\n\nAmong technologies for creating VUIs are: \nGoogle Dialogflow. A powerful tool for creating conversational interfaces.\nAmazon Lex. Enables voice and text conversational experiences.\nMicrosoft Azure Bot Service. For integrating advanced VUIs into web applications.\n\nVUIs are already making an impact in industries like healthcare, retail, and education, where they help users book appointments, find products, or access learning materials just by speaking. Looking ahead, this hands-free, intuitive interaction model will become a key part of what makes a website feel truly modern and user-friendly.\n\n5. Dark mode standardization\n\nDark mode has evolved from a trendy feature to an essential design element, gaining widespread popularity for its aesthetic appeal and functional benefits. As we move into 2025, using bright colors in dark mode is becoming a standard option on websites, offering users greater flexibility in how they interact with digital content.\n\nUsers increasingly prefer darker interfaces for a variety of reasons. It’s easier on the eyes, especially in low-light environments, and feels more modern and elegant. In fact, a study by Android Authority found that 81.9% of users prefer dark mode for its comfort and sleek appearance.\n\nBrands have also embraced the aesthetic benefits. Dark themes often convey a sense of sophistication and innovation, helping companies stand out and align with cutting-edge design trends. Spotify, for example, uses a dark interface to reinforce its premium feel while also reducing glare during long listening sessions.\n\nIf you’re planning to implement dark mode, our main advice is to provide a toggle option. This way, users will switch seamlessly between light and dark modes based on their preferences. To enhance it, you can use high-contrast colors to maintain readability and avoid oversaturated hues that can cause eye strain. \n\nTesting across devices and browsers is also critical to ensure consistency, and accessibility should never be overlooked. Following WCAG guidelines and checking contrast ratios is essential for inclusive design.\n\nHere are some helpful tools to support dark mode integration:\nCSS Custom Properties. Use CSS variables to create light and dark themes easily.\nDark Reader Plugin. Helps developers preview and refine dark mode designs.\nPrefers-Color-Scheme. A CSS media query that detects user preferences for light or dark mode.\n\nAs dark mode becomes a design staple, businesses must go beyond merely offering a toggle to enhance visual appeal. Future dark mode interfaces will likely integrate adaptive features, such as adjusting themes based on the time of day or user environment.\n\n6. Micro-interactions and animations\n\nMicro-interactions and animations are subtle yet powerful tools in modern web design, used by more and more websites. They enhance the user experience by providing visual feedback, making interfaces more engaging and intuitive. These small design elements might seem minor, but they play a crucial role in shaping how users perceive and interact with a website.\n\nAt their core, micro-interactions are those tiny design details that react to user behavior. Think of Instagram’s heart icon that fills with color when you like a post, or a button that gently enlarges when hovered over — small touches that make the interface feel responsive and alive.\n\nDespite being charming, micro-interactions have a job to do. They provide immediate feedback (like letting users know a form was submitted), guide actions (such as changing button colors on hover), and build consistency in design language. When used thoughtfully, they quietly support the user journey without shouting for attention.\n\nTo craft smooth and lightweight micro-interactions, designers often turn to tools like Lottie for JSON-based animations, GSAP for high-performance motion design, and Framer Motion for building advanced animations in React applications.\n\nAs users expect more intuitive and visually appealing interfaces, micro-interactions and animations will be key to:\nKeeping users engaged.\nCommunicating functionality without relying on text.\nCreating memorable and delightful experiences that set brands apart.\n\nIncorporating micro-interactions isn’t just about aesthetics; it’s about creating meaningful interactions that resonate with users. In 2025, the websites that succeed will be the ones that use these tools to create a seamless and engaging user journey.\n\n7. Minimalistic and content-centric design\n\nMinimalistic and content-centric design emphasizes simplicity, clarity, and a laser focus on delivering essential information. This design philosophy strips away unnecessary elements, ensuring that users can quickly and easily access the content they care about most. It works well for three key reasons:\nImproved usability: A streamlined interface removes distractions, guiding users to key content or actions.\nFaster load times: With fewer visual assets, minimalist design makes websites lighter and quicker, improving overall performance.\nEnhanced accessibility: Clean layouts and whitespace support easier navigation, especially for users with visual or cognitive challenges.\n\nSeveral core features define a minimalist and content-centric website design. First, there’s whitespace, which helps break up content and guide the user’s eye. When used well, it improves legibility and gives websites a sense of elegance, and that’s a detail worth checking when you decide how to find a web designer or hire a website designer for your project.\n\nTypography also plays a major role. Take Medium, for example. It’s clean, bold fonts put the focus entirely on the written word. Such a choice reflects a wider design philosophy: let content do the talking.\n\nColor palettes are treated with restraint. Rather than overwhelming users with flashy graphics, minimalist websites tend to lean on neutral or monochromatic palettes that put the spotlight on text and imagery.\n\nPlus, a content-centric design makes sure users immediately see what matters. Effective landing pages, for instance, present the brand’s value proposition right away, without forcing users to scroll or guess. And with personalization becoming more advanced, content can even adjust based on a visitor’s behavior — a hallmark of mastering web design and a core principle of modern web design.\n\nHere are a few practical ways to bring minimalistic and content-centric design into your website:\nAudit your existing content and remove anything outdated, irrelevant, or redundant.\nUse whitespace purposefully to create visual clarity and focus.\nStick to one main call-to-action per page to reduce cognitive overload.\nChoose scalable design elements, like responsive grids and flexible layouts, to ensure simplicity carries across all devices.\n\n8. Advanced scrolling techniques\n\nScrolling has evolved into a storytelling tool that engages users and enhances their overall experience. They’re especially effective on long-form content, portfolio sites, or feature-rich landing pages where flow and narrative matter. Among popular techniques are:\nParallax scrolling\nLayers of content move at different speeds while the user continues scrolling, creating a 3D-like visual depth.\nInfinite scrolling\nContent loads continuously without pagination, keeping users engaged as they explore.\nScroll-triggered animations\nAnimations that activate as users reach certain sections of a page.\nHorizontal scrolling\nAllows users to scroll side-to-side instead of vertically, often for more visual layouts.\n\nThese techniques do more than look cool. When used with intention, they improve storytelling, increase engagement, and streamline navigation by reducing the need for constant clicking. Instead of jumping between pages, users simply scroll through a cohesive, guided experience.\n\nBut with power comes responsibility, and you should keep in mind that heavy animations can slow down sites, especially on mobile. Tools like ScrollMagic or Locomotive Scroll can help manage this by providing smooth animation capabilities. Designers should also provide visual cues (like arrows or hover hints) so users understand how to interact with the interface.\n\nOne standout example of advanced scrolling in action is The Boat, an interactive website that combines parallax effects with scroll-triggered animations. As users scroll, the narrative unfolds visually, immersing them in a compelling story that feels like an animated graphic novel. It’s a great demonstration of how scroll mechanics can drive emotion, engagement, and storytelling without a single click.\n\nLooking further, advanced scrolling techniques will continue to be a staple in web design, enabling brands to create memorable and immersive experiences — even in unconventional styles like brutalism web design.\n\n9. Inclusive and accessible design\n\nInclusive and accessible design ensures that websites are usable by everyone, regardless of their physical abilities, cognitive differences, or technological access. This design trend is about empathy, equity, and creating experiences that work for real people in real situations.\n\nThe importance of inclusive design\nLegal compliance\nLaws like the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and the EU’s Web Accessibility Directive require accessible digital experiences. Failing to comply can result in legal action, fines, or reputational harm.\nEthical responsibility\nInclusive design reflects a brand’s commitment to equality. Making your site accessible shows users that you care about all audiences, not just the majority.\nBusiness benefits\nOver 1 billion people live with some form of disability. Designing with accessibility in mind expands your potential audience and often leads to better usability for everyone.\n\nAccessibility rests on a few core principles: content must be perceivable, operable, understandable, and robust. That means using alt text on images, captions on videos, and clear, consistent layouts. Interactive elements should be usable via keyboard, and complex forms should include helpful labels and error messages. Without them, even the best-designed lead generation website risks losing valuable conversions.\n\nApple is one brand that consistently leads by example. Its devices offer screen readers, zoom, and display adjustments, voice control, and switch control features. These tools are deeply integrated into macOS, iOS, and watchOS, making Apple’s devices usable for people with a wide range of physical and cognitive abilities. \n\n‍\n\nWhen designing with accessibility in mind, focus on contrast and readability. Use scalable layouts so users can adjust font sizes or screen zoom without losing function. Most importantly, test with real users, including those with disabilities. Feedback from actual experiences will highlight barriers that automated tools might miss.\n\nLooking forward, we’ll likely see AI-powered tools that help automate accessibility improvements, as well as personalized interfaces that adapt to users’ unique needs. Inclusive design will also become more critical in emerging technologies like AR, VR, and voice interfaces.\n\n10. Hand-drawn and imperfect design elements\n\nIn an era dominated by clean grids and polished UI, many brands are intentionally embracing design that feels a little… human. Hand-drawn illustrations, rough-edged icons, subtle textures, and “imperfect” shapes are making a comeback in 2025, not because they’re technically impressive, but because they’re emotionally resonant.\n\nThis trend brings warmth, personality, and a sense of craft to digital experiences. It helps brand personality stand out in a sea of sameness by breaking the pixel-perfect mold in favor of something more expressive. These elements can hint at playfulness, transparency, or even nostalgia, depending on how they’re used.\n\nOne brand that uses this design approach effectively is Excalidraw, a collaborative whiteboard tool known for its signature hand-drawn style. Its website design perfectly mirrors the product’s purpose: from the sketched icons to the playful UI touches, every element looks like it was drawn by hand. These visuals reinforce the tool’s core idea and make the site feel casual, creative, and intuitive.\n\nBut like any stylistic choice, hand-drawn elements work best when they support the brand identity. They should feel aligned with the tone, not random or forced. A fintech platform might opt for subtle textures or warm icon sets, while a design studio could go all-in on sketch-style graphics and animated scribbles.\n\nHere’s how to use hand-drawn and imperfect elements effectively:\nUse imperfections strategically — in illustrations, hover states, or transitions\nMatch the style to your brand tone — quirky for playful brands, textured for more grounded ones\nKeep usability first — never sacrifice clarity for creativity\nMix with modern UI — combine hand-drawn visuals with clean grids for a fresh, hybrid look\n\nIn 2025, this design direction reflects a broader shift: digital doesn’t have to feel sterile. A little human touch goes a long way in building emotional connection and standing out from the algorithmic crowd — just look at the most effective SaaS landing page examples that combine minimalism with storytelling.\n\nPrevious trends that remain common\n\nNot every trend fades with time. Some design patterns have proven their staying power and become part of the standard design toolkit. They’re reliable, functional, and continue to shape how users interact with digital products. Let’s take a look at five familiar approaches that still earn their place in modern digital design.\n\n1. White space\n\nWhite space, or negative space, isn’t just an empty background. It’s a critical design tool that creates breathing room, improves readability, and helps focus user attention on key content or actions. By giving elements room to breathe, white space reduces cognitive load and guides the eye through the layout naturally.\n\nNotion website applies this principle throughout its interface. The generous spacing between blocks and clean, borderless layout makes content feel structured without overwhelming the user. \n\n2. Gradients\n\nOnce seen as a flashy design trick, gradients have evolved into a versatile visual element. They’re used subtly to add depth, energy, or emotion, whether in backgrounds, buttons, or overlays. Gradients can help soften minimal layouts or inject vibrancy into neutral color palettes.\n\nCanva uses gradients effectively across its landing pages and visuals. They bring color to backgrounds, illustrations, and CTAs, injecting vibrancy while keeping the overall design clean and user-friendly.\n\n3. Overlapping text and images\n\nLayered visuals bring a sense of dynamism to a page, blurring the lines between content and design. Overlapping text and images can suggest depth, draw attention, or create visual tension that keeps users engaged. When used purposefully, it adds a modern, editorial feel.\n\nUrban Outfitters leans into this trend across its product and campaign pages. Large headlines partially cover images or bleed into interactive elements, creating a dynamic, magazine-like vibe that matches the brand’s bold and trend-driven identity.\n\n4. Interactive hero section\n\nThe hero section is often a user’s first impression, and making it interactive helps spark curiosity and engagement. Whether through micro animation, hover effects, or scroll-based transitions, interactive hero sections invite users to explore instead of passively observe.\n\nRunway sets a high bar with its homepage hero. High-quality video with smooth transitions and bold text immediately reflects the brand’s creative, cutting-edge positioning. \n\n5. Mobile-friendly layouts\n\nWith mobile traffic surpassing desktop in most industries, responsive design is no longer optional. Today’s mobile-friendly layouts prioritize performance, accessibility, and thumb-friendly navigation. It’s about more than shrinking content — it’s rethinking layout, spacing, and interaction for small screens.\n\nAirbnb delivers a near-seamless experience across devices. On mobile, its structured layout adjusts effortlessly, cards stack, navigation simplifies, and key actions remain easily tappable. \n\nIt's time to make a lasting impression\n\nWeb design in 2025 will be defined by innovation, inclusivity, and sustainability. As the digital landscape continues to evolve, designers and businesses must adapt by embracing emerging trends to remain relevant and engaging. At the same time, understanding website design cost and having a clear website owner’s manual will be essential for planning and maintaining this long-term success.\n\nAs you plan your next website redesign or digital project, consider how the trends above can elevate your online presence. Start by identifying the core goal you want to achieve and let that guide your design choices. And if you ever feel stuck or unsure about the next step, our TodayMade team is always here to lend a hand.\n\nDefine your core goals and brand tone first. For example, if you’re a creative studio, hand-drawn elements or interactive scroll effects may make sense.\n\nIf you’re in finance or healthcare, performance, accessibility, and minimalism should lead.\n\nAbsolutely. Tools like Webflow, Framer, and Figma make modern design more accessible for smaller teams.\n\nAnd if you’re feeling overwhelmed, partnering with a design-focused agency (like TodayMade 😉) can help you apply these trends with strategy and clarity.\n\nYes. Inclusive design improves SEO, usability, and brand trust.\n\nIn 2025, accessibility is a baseline expectation that sets truly user-centered businesses apart."}
