{"title":"Graphic Design Online &ndash; The Los Angeles Film School","author":"LAFS","date":"2013-07-27T23:52:42+00:00","main_content":"Elevate your creative journey with the essential TechKit for online graphic design. This carefully curated bundle empowers you to bring your ideas to life with precision, portability, and professional-grade tools. Hardware Designed for Creative Expression: Apple MacBook:  Experience seamless performance, stunning visuals, and ample storage capacity for creative projects – all packaged in a powerful, portable device. iPad Pro 11-inch (M4) 256 GB & Apple Pencil Gen2:  Sketch, draw, and illustrate with incredible precision and responsiveness, unlocking new dimensions for your design process. Protective Case + Tablet Clamp:  Keep your iPad secure and transform it into a versatile workstation. Magnus Photo/Video Tripod:  Achieve stable shots for photography and video projects. Wireless Mouse:  Perform simple gestures on its smooth, seamless surface. Overhead Shooting Bracket Ring Light Set:  Illuminate your subject with three color temperature settings for warm, cool, or natural light and 11 brightness levels. Connectivity Hub:  Ensure convenient connection and expand your workspace functionality with ease. Software Suite to Fuel Your Imagination: Adobe Creative Cloud:  Access the ultimate toolkit for graphic design, illustration, photography, video editing, and digital asset management. Unleash your potential with industry-leading applications. MS Office:  Master essential productivity applications like Word, Excel, and PowerPoint, ensuring you’re equipped for effective project management and client communication. *The specific types of equipment and their details included in our TechKits may change without prior notice. To ensure you receive the most accurate information about the current TechKit specifications, please confirm the details with your Admissions Representative.   Our online degree programs bring the entertainment industry directly to you.  Learn from industry veterans through our secure Learning Management System (LMS). This user-friendly online platform lets you collaborate with classmates on projects, submit weekly assignments, and access instructor video lectures. Check out our interactive webinar for details on: Online Programs  Overview of our degree types and concentrations, and a walk through of the gear and software you’ll receive for your degree. Student Life  Curious about how our online classes work?  We’ll show you.  You’ll also find how you can participate in our virtual and livestream events. Success Stories  Find out about what amazing projects our alumni have been working on. Paying for School  We walk you through your options for paying for school including: scholarships and grants, Federal Student Aid, military funding and cash payment options."}
