{"title":"15 Must-Have Kitchen Appliances for a Modern Home","author":"More Israel","date":"2025-03-28T10:05:54+00:00","main_content":"The right kitchen appliances can make cooking easier, faster, and more enjoyable. Whether you’re preparing meals from scratch every day or just need a few essentials for quick and simple dishes, having the right tools in your kitchen saves time and effort. Some appliances help with basic tasks like heating and cleaning, while others expand what you can cook at home.\n\nIf you’re remodeling your kitchen, it’s important to think about how appliances fit into your space. Kitchen & More specializes in designing kitchens that work with your cooking style, whether that means making room for high-end appliances or adding smart storage for smaller gadgets and essential kitchen accessories. In this guide, we’ll cover a list of must-have kitchen appliances, from everyday essentials to modern conveniences that can make cooking easier.\n\nSmart Refrigerator\n\nA refrigerator is one of the must-have kitchen appliances in any home, but today’s models go far beyond just keeping food cold. Samsung’s Family Hub offers a built-in touchscreen that syncs with grocery lists, plays music, and allows you to see inside the fridge remotely via a mobile app. This means you can check what’s missing while grocery shopping. \n\nLG InstaView, on the other hand, lets you peek inside by simply knocking on the glass panel—reducing energy waste from frequently opening the door. Some high-end models even have AI-powered cooling zones that adjust temperature and humidity based on what’s stored inside, keeping produce fresh for longer. For families who need better food organization and tech integration, a smart refrigerator is a great investment.\n\nFor families focused on efficient kitchen layouts, combining a smart refrigerator with custom kitchen cabinets allows for better food organization and a cleaner overall design.\n\nInduction Cooktop with Smart Features\n\nInduction cooktops are rapidly replacing traditional gas and electric stoves due to their efficiency, precision, and safety. Unlike gas, induction heats cookware directly using electromagnetic technology, eliminating heat loss and making cooking faster. GE Profile induction cooktops offer touch controls, precise temperature settings, and smart pan recognition, ensuring even cooking every time. \n\nBosch Benchmark models take it a step further with automatic spill detection, adjusting heat instantly to prevent burning or messes. These cooktops also reduce energy consumption and are safer for households with children since the surface remains cool to the touch. If you’re looking for a modern, efficient cooking experience, induction cooktops are a top choice.\n\nCombination Wall Oven & Air Fryer\n\nTraditional ovens are evolving to include air frying as a built-in function, making this one of the most useful kitchen appliances in 2025. Brands like Café Appliances and Whirlpool Smart Oven offer combination wall ovens that can bake, broil, roast, and air fry—all in one unit. This eliminates the need for a separate countertop air fryer, saving space while adding versatility. \n\nConvection technology ensures even heat distribution, reducing cooking times and energy use. These ovens are especially beneficial for families or home chefs who frequently cook multiple dishes at once. If you love crispy, golden foods without excessive oil, this appliance is a game-changer.\n\nSmart Microwave Oven\n\nA microwave remains a staple on any kitchen appliances list, but newer models have smart technology that improves cooking precision. The Panasonic NN-SV79MS and GE Smart Microwave include sensor cooking technology that automatically adjusts power levels and cooking time based on the moisture and weight of the food. \n\nThis prevents overheating and ensures better results, whether you’re reheating leftovers, defrosting meat, or cooking vegetables. Many models now feature voice controls via Alexa or Google Assistant, allowing hands-free operation. If you’re short on counter space, built-in or over-the-range microwaves help free up room while providing additional venting for stovetop cooking.\n\nDrawer-Style Dishwasher\n\nDishwashers have become more energy-efficient and functional, with drawer-style dishwashers offering new levels of convenience. Fisher & Paykel and Bosch 800 Series models feature separate pull-out drawers that allow you to run smaller or larger loads independently. \n\nThis is particularly useful for smaller households or those who entertain frequently, as you can wash only what you need without wasting water. Many models include adjustable tines and third racks, allowing you to fit larger pots and pans without cramming everything together. Modern dishwashers also operate much more quietly, making them ideal for open-concept kitchens where the kitchen and living areas are connected.\n\nHigh-Performance Toaster Oven\n\nA countertop kitchen appliance that continues to gain popularity is a high-performance toaster oven. These are no longer just for toasting bread—models like the Breville Smart Oven Air and Ninja Foodi XL combine air frying, baking, roasting, and dehydrating in one device. They offer the same power as full-size ovens but heat up faster, making them perfect for cooking smaller meals without turning on the main oven. \n\nSome models have dual-zone cooking, allowing you to bake a pizza on one side while roasting vegetables on the other. High-performance toaster ovens are ideal for quick, efficient meal prep and pair well with durable kitchen countertops that offer heat resistance and easy cleaning—both essential for daily cooking.\n\nEspresso & Coffee System\n\nFor coffee lovers, a basic coffee maker isn’t always enough. The Jura E8 and Breville Barista Pro take coffee brewing to the next level with built-in grinders, milk frothing systems, and customizable brewing settings. These machines allow you to create barista-quality espresso, cappuccinos, and lattes right at home. \n\nThe Jura E8 features one-touch brewing, while the Breville Barista Pro offers precise temperature control and manual espresso pulling for those who like to fine-tune their drinks. Many smart models also come with Bluetooth connectivity, allowing you to schedule your coffee or adjust settings remotely. If you appreciate high-quality coffee, investing in an advanced espresso system is worth it.\n\nSmart Blender\n\nA blender is essential for making smoothies, soups, and sauces, but smart blenders now offer more control and precision. The Vitamix A3500 features a digital touch interface, pre-programmed blending cycles, and app connectivity, making it easy to blend everything from frozen fruits to nut butters with the perfect consistency. \n\nThe Nutribullet Smart Touch offers powerful one-touch blending for single servings, ideal for busy mornings when you need a quick, nutritious drink. Some models even include self-cleaning functions, making cleanup effortless. Whether you’re making protein shakes, green smoothies, or pureed soups, a smart blender simplifies the process.\n\nCompact Food Processor\n\nA food processor is one of the most useful kitchen appliances for anyone who frequently prepares meals from scratch. The Cuisinart Elemental and KitchenAid 9-Cup models come with a variety of blade attachments that make chopping, slicing, grating, and pureeing effortless. They can also knead dough for homemade bread or pizza. \n\nIf you often find yourself dicing vegetables, shredding cheese, or making sauces, a food processor significantly reduces prep time. Compact models fit easily on the counter or in cabinets, making them ideal even for smaller kitchens without sacrificing power or performance.\n\nMulti-Use Pressure Cooker\n\nPressure cookers have become an essential part of modern kitchens due to their versatility and efficiency. The Instant Pot Pro and Ninja Foodi 11-in-1 offer multiple cooking functions in one appliance, including pressure cooking, slow cooking, sautéing, steaming, and even air frying. This means you can make anything from tender meats and stews to yogurt and rice with minimal effort. \n\nThe ability to speed up cooking times—sometimes cutting them in half—makes this a must-have for busy households that want home-cooked meals without spending hours in the kitchen. Some models also include Wi-Fi connectivity, allowing you to control them remotely via an app.\n\nAir Purifying Range Hood\n\nA high-quality range hood does more than just vent smoke—it helps maintain a cleaner and fresher kitchen. The Zephyr and FOTILE models use advanced air purification technology to remove cooking odors, grease particles, and airborne pollutants. Unlike traditional range hoods, these newer models have built-in filtration systems that improve indoor air quality, making them particularly beneficial for those who cook frequently. \n\nSome models even have motion sensors and auto-adjust features, ensuring they work efficiently based on your cooking activity. If you want to prevent lingering food smells and keep your kitchen feeling fresh, an air-purifying range hood is a smart investment.\n\nSmart Rice Cooker\n\nA rice cooker may seem like a simple appliance, but smart models like the Zojirushi NP-NVC10 and Cuckoo CRP-P1009 take precision cooking to the next level. These cookers use AI technology to adjust cooking time and temperature based on the type of rice you’re making—whether it’s white rice, brown rice, sushi rice, or even quinoa. \n\nSome models also include settings for porridge, steaming vegetables, and even baking cakes, making them a versatile addition to your kitchen. With a “keep warm” function that prevents overcooking, a smart rice cooker ensures you get perfect, fluffy grains every time without any guesswork.\n\nSmart Air Fryer\n\nAir fryers remain one of the most useful kitchen appliances because they offer a healthier way to enjoy crispy foods without excessive oil. The Cosori Pro LE and Philips Premium models use rapid air circulation to cook food evenly, delivering the texture of deep-fried dishes with little to no oil. \n\nMany of the latest models include preset cooking programs for fries, chicken, vegetables, and even baked goods, making them easy to use even for beginners. Some smart air fryers can also be controlled via a mobile app or voice assistants like Alexa, allowing you to monitor cooking progress remotely. Whether you want crispy roasted vegetables, crunchy chicken wings, or quick reheated leftovers, a smart air fryer can handle a variety of tasks while cutting down on unhealthy fats.\n\nUnder-Counter Beverage Refrigerator\n\nFor those who entertain frequently or simply enjoy having extra drinks on hand, an under-counter beverage refrigerator provides a convenient storage solution. Brands like NewAir and Kalamera offer models with dual-zone temperature control, allowing you to keep sodas, beer, and wine at their optimal temperatures. \n\nUnlike standard refrigerators, these are designed to fit seamlessly under countertops, making them perfect for kitchen islands, home bars, or even office spaces. Some models also feature glass doors with LED lighting, adding a sleek, modern look while making it easy to see what’s inside. If you want to keep your favorite beverages chilled and organized without taking up valuable refrigerator space, this is a great addition to your kitchen.\n\nSmart Sous Vide Precision Cooker\n\nSous vide cooking has become a favorite technique for home chefs looking to achieve restaurant-quality results. The Anova Precision and Breville Joule sous vide cookers allow you to cook meats, fish, and vegetables to precise temperatures by circulating water around vacuum-sealed food. \n\nThis ensures even cooking without overcooking or drying out your ingredients. With smart connectivity, you can control these devices via an app, setting cooking times and temperatures remotely. Whether you’re slow-cooking a steak to perfect doneness or preparing tender vegetables with locked-in flavor, a sous vide precision cooker is a game-changer.\n\nUpgrade Your Kitchen with Kitchen & More\n\nHaving the right appliances makes cooking easier, but a well-designed kitchen ensures they fit seamlessly into your space. If you’re considering a remodel, Kitchen & More can help create a layout that works for your lifestyle. Whether you need better storage for small kitchen appliances or a more functional setup for cooking, our team can design a space that meets your needs. Contact us today to start planning your ideal kitchen!"}
