{"title":"Project management services | CGI United States","author":null,"date":null,"main_content":"A comprehensive, tailored approach to project management services\n\nOrganizations are challenged to align initiatives with organizational strategy, respond quickly to changes, and deliver complex projects that drive value. Our project management services offer a comprehensive approach that promotes seamless collaboration, implements transparent governance structures, manages and reduces risk, and helps drive and achieve successful outcomes, creating a tailored path toward digital transformation. \n\nWith 40+ years of experience, CGI's senior practitioners leverage proven frameworks to enhance PMO excellence, project and portfolio management, and innovation. Our project management consultants tailor their approach to each client's needs, whether establishing, assessing or maturing a PMO. Our recommendations are practical and forward-thinking, using a systematic process to identify strengths, opportunities, and realistic business operations and governance improvements.\n\nCGI AdaptiveSI\n\nCGI AdaptiveSI introduces a new approach to system implementation, blending agility, design thinking and change management to deliver needed results and value. This streamlined delivery method reduces risk, accelerates timelines and fosters sustainable transformation through a holistic framework.\n\nProgram and project management\n\nOur project management consultants employ effective program and project management methodologies to help deliver complex strategic initiatives. Our program and project managers find opportunities to drive efficiencies, reduce risks and ensure that projects are delivered successfully.\n\nPortfolio management\n\nOur portfolio management services help clients identify priorities and focus on strategic initiatives to provide value outcomes. We help clients gain visibility into their portfolio to identify capacity risks, gaps, dependencies and project health so they can take needed actions. \n\nPMO assessment, implementation and maturity\n\nA Project Management Office (PMO) enhances an organization's ability to manage projects, control costs, and reduce risks. With our PMO consulting services, we help clients at any stage, whether building a new PMO, assessing an existing one, or improving a current PMO. Our process involves establishing a baseline, defining future goals, and creating actionable steps to bridge identified gaps. This approach fosters continuous improvement and increases overall project success rates.\n\nBusiness analysis and business process reengineering\n\nOur project management consultants help businesses improve operations by analyzing current processes and finding ways to enhance them. Working with clients, we redesign processes to boost efficiency, ensure compliance, and improve user experience. Our PMO consulting services approach also includes change management strategies to help employees adapt to new processes through communication, training, and ongoing support.\n\nLearn more about our project management services\n\nReady to begin your journey toward digital leadership? Connect with a project management consultant to drive efficiency, reduce risks and ensure that your projects align with strategic goals."}
