{"title":"Treadmill Repair & Fitness Equipment Repair Kankakee, IL (217) 636-4344  Treadmill Maintenance. Elliptical Repair. Weight Machines and more. FREE ESTIMATES.","author":null,"date":null,"main_content":"Great Service. Great Rates. Fast Response. Great Value.  \n\n How we save you money: Flat rates for routine service - forget the $65 an hour charge! Flat rates for up to 10 pieces of strength equipment! Heavily discounted trip fee in most cases. We service it all - no need for multiple service providers, multiple contracts, multiple headaches. All repairs are warrantied for 90 days, not just 30, on top of OEM parts warranty. Our \"No Contract, contract\" makes it easy for you to save 10-20%, no paperwork required. \n\n Our technicians are local to Kankakee, IL. We'd love to help out.  \n\n Call us now to set an appointment or get a service quote: (217) 636-4344 Same Day Service is available!  \n\n Or email [email protected] We'll get back with you right away. \n\n We repair and maintain most makes & models of treadmills, ellipticals, bikes, & weight machines.   \n\n Call us for treadmill repair and maintenance in Kankakee, IL and surrounding areas. You now have a choice for expert, professional fitness equipment repair and maintenance. You don't need to worry about a huge service \"trip\" fee, for a technician to come from the big city! We live where you live, and we do everything we can to coordinate service and travel to keep costs down.  Let our highly trained service technicians help you get the most life out of your expensive fitness and exercise equipment!  From routine, manufacturer's recommended service, inspection, and lubrication, to free estimates for any needed repairs, we strive to take care of your fitness and exercise equipment like it was our own (How do we take care of our own? Members of our service team have \"a norelco razor from 1989, still shaves\"; \"mountain bike from 1992, rides perfect\"; \"1999 treadmill, all original, used in home, daily\". Our vehicles all have over 200,00 miles on them. They run great, and we don't expect to have to replace them anytime soon, and, yes, we service them ourselves).  We'll fix your treadmill!   Commercial Treadmill Service and Repair:  In your club, studio, or gym, treadmills take a beating, everyday. Routine cleaning and service is essential to getting long life from that expensive machine. We believe it should not cost an arm and a leg. We make it easy to stay on top of routine service. We can set appointments with you in advance, for scheduled service. We do routine service follow up calls at no charge, because we take pride in our work. We watch our bottom line, so we can watch your bottom line.   Routine Service and Maintenance of your commercial treadmill is the single best thing you can do to avoid costly, premature motor, deck, or belt failures, and we believe, we provide you the single best value for that service. Give us a call and see what we can do.    Free Repair Estimates : As we go through the equipment, we take notes, take pictures, and sometimes video. We'll identify things that need to be repaired right now.  We'll make those repairs immediately, if we can, to save a second trip and second charge. We'll make recommendations for what we believe will be the next major maintenance required, if any, and what the approximate cost will be.  For repairs that need parts and other labor, we'll source those parts and give you our lowest cost to repair.  If the cost is pretty high, then we can look at some replacement options too.     \n\n Weight Machines, Free Weights, Accessories : Pin select machines, dumbbells, barbells, weights should last a very, very long time. They still need routine service, inspection, lubrication, and adjustment to give safe use and long life.  \n\n We specialize in treadmill repair, bikes, elliptical crosstrainers, weight machines, and other fitness equipment.  Our highly trained technicians are very skilled in troubleshooting. This minimizes your cost. We only use OEM or OEM Authorized/licensed repair parts for your treadmills, ellipticals, weight machines, bikes, strength, and cardio equipment.  This also saves you money..   There's a trend here....... We want to give you the best treadmill and fitness equipment repair & maintenance, at the best value.   Let's face it, we're wrench-heads. We love fixing stuff, keeping it running, and saving you money. Kind of a pride thing.  We drive old cars with gobs of miles on them, and we do our own repairs and maintenance on them. Because we love this stuff!  What sets us apart?   Experience.  Our chief wrench has been wrenching since the Flock of Seagulls stopped the world to melt with you.  He's been working on treadmills and other fitness equipment, conducting service and repair of treadmills, weights, bikes, in the Kankakee, IL area since 2009.   Passion:  Fixing treadmills, cleaning weight machines, solving those tough rattle or knock riddles - that's what we love to do - it's a hobby and a profession.  Our technicians, as individual as they may be, share a common thread of loving what they do. We take the time to troubleshoot and diagnose - no \"part swappers\" here. This takes a little more time up front, but saves a lot of time and money getting your equipment back in operation again.   Dedication:  We want to do it right. We want your fitness equipment to run right in Kankakee, IL or wherever it may be. No slack. No excuses.    Goofy : We have to admit, we are a little bit goofy with this stuff: We read manuals. We check service bulletins. We check recall lists. We follow schematics. We bore family and friends with repair stories. Where we don't understand, we ask questions.  We'll talk with factory maintenance techs, engineers, parts specialists - like they were family, because they are.   Value:  We know you've got a choice for your treadmill repair In Kankakee, IL. We also know budgets are tight for fixing fitness equipment, servicing treadmills, repairing weight machines.  We want to be your best value for repair, service, and that new or refurbished equipment when it comes to it. We understand there are numbers to meet, bottom line, come hell or high water (We are in the same boat). Because we know how to keep our own costs as low as possible, we know how to keep your costs as low as possible.  We also know how it feels to have to have a treadmill fixed and getting smacked with a high repair bill.  We can't make motors, belts, or decks cheaper, but we can keep our labor costs low and help those things run as long as possible.  \n\n Up Time Matters:   We understand the money value of time!     No matter where a treadmill, elliptical or other piece of fitness equipment is located, Kankakee, IL or anywhere, it is there for one purpose: to run and run right. We know hotel fitness equipment is a valuable amenity and guests count on it to run.  No one wants an out of order sign hanging on it (especially when we are staying with you :).    Multifamily owners and managers, it's the same for you. Your residents count on the treadmills and fitness equipment to be there when they need them. Out of order machines are a hassle and poorly working ones are a safety issue.    Clubs and gym owners.. it goes without saying. Your trainers and members are your most treasured assets, but those treadmills and weight machines are the life blood of the business, and they need to work!     We know time is money, up time is earning time; down-time is cost time.  We strive to make sure your equipment has maximum possible up time. When you become a continuing maintenance and service client, we will stock repair and service items specifically for you. These parts are \"yours\" for your equipment, except you don't have to pay for them, stock them, or worry about them until needed.  This gives us the ability to respond fast and fix your equipment with minimal delay.   \n\n Ask About our Service Contract Discounts and Preferred Provider Discounts!!    We love saving you money as much as we love keeping your fitness equipment running right!  That means we have more discounts to apply to our already extremely low repair rates.  Call us today to learn more (217) 636-4344.  If email is more convenient, then send us a note at [email protected]."}
