{"title":"Sundance Announces Its 2026 Short Film Program","author":"Elaina Patton","date":"2025-12-15T17:00:00+00:00","main_content":"The Sundance Film Festival is rolling out the lineup for its  landmark 41st edition, where organizers and attendees will bid farewell to the festival’s founder, the late Robert Redford, and its longtime home of Park City, Utah. \n \nAfter announcing the feature and episodic program last week, on Monday, the Sundance Institute revealed this year’s substantial lineup of short film  selections. The 54 films in the short program, which include fiction, nonfiction, and animation titles, hail from 22 countries and territories across eight categories. And as usual, the selections represent both established and emerging filmmakers, many of whom will be in attendance for the world or North American premiere of their films.  \n \nIn the nonfiction category, shorts transport viewers to an outsider community on the edge of the Mississippi River in New Orleans (“Some Kind of Refuge”), the days following Luigi Mangione’s arrest (“Luigi”), and a therapy collective in 1970s Los Angeles(“Going Sane”). In U.S. and international fiction, directors explore tense familial dynamics (“I’m Glad You’re Dead Now,” “Candy Bar”), musical inspirations (“How Brief,” “Jazz Infernal”), the burden of pregnancy (“Marga en el DF,” “Fruit”), and the dramatic life of a thespian (“Crisis Actor,” “Faux Bijoux”). Meanwhile, those in the animation category portray an array of worlds, both real and imagined. \n \n“The short films in this year’s selection are so different from each other, but what impressed us most is how inventive they are — there’s so much dynamic and exciting filmmaking to enjoy throughout the program,” Heidi Zwicker, the festival’s senior programmer for feature and short films, said in a statement. “This global lineup runs the gamut when it comes to genres, themes, and the worlds these films bring to life. We’re excited to share that variety with our audiences while providing a platform for both emerging and established filmmakers to showcase their work.” \n \nThis year’s edition of Sundance runs January 22-February 1, 2026, with a selection of titles, including a curated group of short films, available online beginning January 29. In past years, the shorts program has included titles from the likes of Andrea Arnold, Damien Chazelle, Jay and Mark Duplass, Todd Haynes, Taika Waititi, and several other well-known filmmakers. This year’s full short film program is listed below. \n \nU.S. FICTION SHORT FILMS  \n \nAlbatross  / U.S.A. (Director and Screenwriter: Amandine Thomas, Screenwriter and Producer: Gerardo Coello Escalante, Producers: Zach Wechter, Valerie Bush, Carlos López Estrada, Glenn Kiser, Amanda Schneider) — Maria, burdened with caregiving for her sick husband, gets invited to a party.  Cast: Georgina Saldaña Wonchee, Patrick O’Brien, Ciro Suárez. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nBalloon Animals  / U.S.A. (Director and Screenwriter: Anna Baumgarten, Producer: Katy Wicker) — Two grocery store employees have an unexpected, helium-fueled encounter with a late-night customer.  Cast: Angela Giarratana, Izzi Rojas, Kelsi Roberts. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nBirdie  / U.S.A. (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Praise Odigie Paige, Producer: Yety Akinola, Praise Odigie Paige, Noni Limar, Nat Majette) — In 1970, a 16-year-old Nigerian refugee in Virginia tries to keep her family together when a newcomer draws her sister away.  Cast: Eniola Abioro, Precious Maduanusi, Sheila Chukwulozie. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nCallback  / U.S.A. (Director and Screenwriter: Matthew Puccini, Producers: Jeremy Truong, Matt Kazman) — Max arrives home to find that his boyfriend has booked a callback. All hell breaks loose.  Cast: Justin H. Min, Michael Hsu Rosen, Brayden Raqueño. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nThe Creature of Darkness  / U.S.A. (Directors and Screenwriters: Lisa Malloy, Ray Whitaker, Producer: Jennifer Reeder) — Darkness settles over Little Egypt. Brielle, Karri, and Nunu wander among the limestone outcrops and sandstone spires. In a cave that hid freedom seekers along the Underground Railroad, their uncle shares a story of a creature that stirs at night.  Cast: Brielle Woods, Zah’Karri Levy, Erin Whitaker. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nCrisis Actor  / U.S.A. (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Lily Platt, Producers: Sophie Seyd, Alex Bendo, Lexi Preiser) — Fired from her day job, an impulsive actress crashes a support group and spirals into a chaotic night that forces her to face her addiction to drama.  Cast: Sarah Steele, Philip Ettinger. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nDON’T TELL MAMA  / U.S.A. (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Chloe Leigh King, Producers: Shaka King, Daniel Croix, Meleokauaapuakea Hamasaki, Oona Roche) — A Montenegrin father takes his teenage daughter on an unforgettable dinner date.  Cast: Uliks Fehmiu, Jordyn Jenkins. Available online for public.  \n \nGender Studies  / U.S.A. (Director and Screenwriter: Jamie Kiernan O’Brien, Producer: Kirsten Pasewaldt) — When a trans college student learns the girl she idolizes is sleeping with their teaching assistant, she takes drastic steps to emulate her.  Cast: Jake Junkins, Fannie Massarsky, Austin Cassel. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nThe Oracle  / U.S.A. (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: JJ Adler, Producers: Jon Cohen, Jon Wolf) — When an atheist psychiatrist hypnotizes his con artist patient, a message from his long-dead twin emerges. It could be the perfect con, or it could be proof that reality is far stranger than he would like to admit.  Cast: Kurt Fuller, Brandon Scott Jones, Luka Jones, Karen Maruyama. World Premiere.  \n \nPankaja  / U.S.A., India (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Anooya Swamy, Producers: Nakirekanti Swamy, Archana Swamy, Vindhya Gupta) — Pankaja, along with her daughter, Lalli, searches for her missing husband through the city slums of Bangalore to bring him back home.  Cast: Harshini Boyalla, Padmashree G. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nPrime  / U.S.A. (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Meagan Coyle, Producer: Blake Winston Rice) — A trauma victim joins a utopian farming community only to find she’s bitten off more than she can chew.  Cast: Katie Mumford, Anita Durst, Campbell Symes, Jacob A. Ware, Mickey Sumner, Tim Heidecker. Available online for public.  \n \nRadiant Frost  / U.S.A. (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Hannah Schierbeek, Producer: Trenton Davis) — A drifter’s life takes a dramatic turn when he discovers a runaway member of a survivalist cult in the back of his truck.  Cast: Eli Vidis Newman, Taika Augustaitis, Heather Evans. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nSeniors  / U.S.A. (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Adam Curley, Producers: Steven Snyder, Harris Gurny) — A high school senior goes on his first college campus tour the day his parents’ marriage begins to fracture.  Cast: Brooke Bloom, Noah Pacht, Matt Walton, Dan Thompson. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nStairs  / U.S.A. (Director and Screenwriter: Riley Donigan, Producers: Anton Vicente Kliot, Sam Callahan) — A woman’s life unravels after she becomes addicted to throwing herself down flights of stairs.  Cast: Betsey Brown, Will Duncan, Will Janowitz. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nTaga  / U.S.A., Philippines (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Jill Marie Sachs, Producers: Joyce Liu-Countryman, Kristine De Leon, Louise Barretto) — Vivi, a third-culture Filipina American, travels to the Philippines to reconnect with her roots but falls in with a group of Western eco-volunteers. When they scorn the customs of a remote mountain village, an ancient evil comes knocking.  Cast: Kim Adis, Lisa Jacqueline Starrett, Ian S. Peterson, Joey Scoma, Bong Cabrera. Available online for public.  \n \nTogether Forever  / U.S.A. (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Gregory Barnes, Producers: Alex Bendo, Lexi Preiser, Tyler Walker, Yumeng Han) — A Mormon couple ties the knot.  Cast: Lindsey Normington, Samuel Sylvester. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nINTERNATIONAL FICTION SHORT FILMS  \n \nAgnes  / U.K., Canada (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Leah Vlemmiks, Producer: Priscila Gonçalves) — Under pressure from her adult daughter to move and become a live-in babysitter, 74-year-old Agnes finds agency in an unexpected place.  Cast: Eileen Davies, Clare Holman. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nBlue Heart  / Haiti, France (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Samuel Suffren, Producers: Carine Ruszniewski, Louise Bansard) — Marianne and Pétion, living in Haiti, await a call from their son who has left in pursuit of the American dream.  Cast: Marie Diana, Arnold Joseph, Samuel Suffren. Available online for public.  \n \nCandy Bar  / Australia (Director and Producer: Nash Edgerton, Screenwriter: Damon Herriman, Producer: Serena Paull) — A young girl thinks a man in the candy bar line looks like her dad.  Cast: Damon Herriman, Andrea Demetriades, Zumi Edgerton, Caitlin Burley. Available online for public.  \n \nFaux Bijoux   / France, Lebanon (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Jessy Moussallem, Screenwriter: Jihad Hojeily, Producers: Jean-Baptiste Savary, Olivier Muller, Gary Farkas, Clément Lepoutre) — Mireille promises Johnny the big screen, dragging him to an audition whose rules only she truly knows.  Cast: Maria Shmouri, Akram Nayef, Samer El Sayyed, Seidi Haarla, Jarkko Lahti. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nFruit (Buah)   / Singapore (Director and Screenwriter: Jen Nee Lim, Producer: Ke Ning Lee) — In a time and place where abortion is illegal, a pregnant woman’s repeated attempts to end her pregnancy fail until she crosses paths with a strange bus driver.  Cast: Tysha Khan, Hana Nadira, Wan Ahmad. North American Premiere.  \n \nHow Brief  / Canada (Director: Kelly McCormack, Screenwriter: Tess Degenstein, Producers: Ariel Bond, Lucy McNulty, Jill Orsten) — A disappearing act occurs over the course of one night in 1962 when a restless woman returns to her childhood home for the last time. Inspired by the music of singer-songwriter Connie Converse.  Cast: Tess Degenstein, Tatiana Maslany, Gray Powell, Susinn McFarlen. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n  \nI’m Glad You’re Dead Now  / France, Greece, Palestine (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Tawfeek Barhom, Producers: Alexandre Perrier, Stylianos Cotionis, Akis Polizos) — Two brothers return to the island of their childhood, where buried secrets and heavy tensions force them to confront a dark past that connects them.  Cast: Tawfeek Barhom, Ashraf Barhom. Available online for public.  \n  \nIvar  / Norway (Director: Markus Tangre, Screenwriter: Signe Dammann Anker, Producers: Rebekka Rognøy, Henrik Zwart) — A change in her husband’s scent sends Anne spiraling into a late-night existential crisis.  Cast: Tone Mostraum, Robert Skjærstad. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nJazz Infernal  / Canada (Director and Screenwriter: Will Niava, Screenwriter: Kristelle Laroche, Producers: Zion Lipstein-Saffer, Samuel Caron) — Koffi, a young Ivorian trumpeter, arrives in Montréal with nothing but the legacy of his father to guide him. Lost between the city’s noise and the silence of his past, he must confront his roots to finally find his voice.  Cast: Ange-Eric N’guessan, Alexis Belhumeur, Kalombo Kasongo. U.S. Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nThe Liars  / Argentina (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Eduardo Braun Costa, Producers: Manuel Aguer, Natasha Gurfinkel) — Thrown into adulthood, Matías and Jaime try to make sense of the world. One day, Jaime is arrested by a security guard at a mall and Matías must ask a stranger to pretend to be their father to free him.  Cast: Noah Roja, Filippo Carrozza, Esteban Bigliardi, Mariana Chaud, Pablo Fusco. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nMarga en el DF  / Mexico, U.S.A. (Director and Screenwriter: Gabriela Ortega, Producers: Karla Luna Cantú, Natalia Gonzalez, Eugenio Valero, Carlos López Estrada, Valerie Bush, Stacy Perskie) — In the wake of Selena Quintanilla’s murder, Marga’s life takes an unexpected turn at 21 weeks pregnant during a surprise visit to Mexico City.  Cast: Camila Santana, David Palacio, Xabiani Ponce de León, Andrea de Fátima. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nNorheimsund  / Cuba, U.S.A. (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Ana A. Alpizar, Producer: Madeline R. Finkel) — A girl’s long-distance romance with an older Norwegian man promises to pull her and her mother from their austere life in Cuba, but her dreams are shaken when she realizes he isn’t as ideal as he seems.  Cast: Paula Massó Varela, Yaité Ruiz, Darianis Palenzuela, Kiriam Gutiérrez. U.S. Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nO’Sey Balamma  / India (Director and Screenwriter: Raman Nimmala, Producer: Priyanka Krishnan) — During the Sankranti festival celebrations, a matriarch and her housekeeper confront solitude through the intimacy of each other’s company.  Cast: Mani Amma K.L.K., Dhanalakshmi Mudi Bandla. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \n¡PIKA!  / Peru (Director and Producer: Alex Fischman Cárdenas, Screenwriter and Producer: Trout Cohen, Producers: Morella Moret, Etienne Talbot) — A man wakes up with an unbearable itch. Anxious to find a cure, he embarks on a nightmarish odyssey in search of relief.  Cast: Jose Medina, Teresa Ralli. North American Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nSauna Sickness  / Sweden (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Malin Barr) — Locked out on a freezing New Year’s Eve, Cleo discovers the real threat isn’t the cold — it’s the man beside her.  Cast: Thea Sofie Loch Næss, Adam Lundgren, Magnus Krepper, Sanna Krepper. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nWithout Kelly (Utan Kelly)  / Sweden (Director and Screenwriter: Lovisa Sirén, Producer: Siri Hjorton Wagner) — Forced to leave her baby daughter with the child’s father, young mother Esther is caught in desperation and longing. Through the night she chases touch and comfort, seeking ways to hold onto whom she loves the most.  Cast: Medea Strid. North American Premiere.  \n \nThe Worm  / Australia (Director and Producer: Tom Noakes, Screenwriter and Producer: Will Goodfellow, Producers: Adrian Pinto, Lucy Gaffy) — A young man’s strange belief sparks an intervention from his family.  Cast: Joe Bird, Heather Mitchell, Susie Porter, Contessa Treffone, Richard Sydenham. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nANIMATION SHORT FILMS  \n  \n1981  / U.S.A. (Directors, Screenwriters, and Producers: Andy London, Carolyn London) — In 1981 in suburban Long Island, New York, the mullets are long, the metal is heavy, and 14-year-old Douglas gets a birthday surprise that will change his life forever.  Cast: Minnie Tonka, Alexei London, Carolyn London, Tony DiMurro. Available online for public.  \n \nThe Bird’s Placebo  / Tunisia (Director and Screenwriter: Rami Jarboui, Producers: Sarra Ben Hassen, Ramses Mahfoudh, Lotfi Mahfoudh) — In a marginalized Tunisian neighborhood, a young man in a wheelchair dreams of crossing the Mediterranean Sea until a surreal encounter shifts his path.  Cast: Yassine Bardaa, Fatrma Falhi, Mohamed Hassine Grayaa. North American Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nBusy Bodies  / U.S.A (Director and Screenwriter: Kate Renshaw-Lewis, Producer: Eric Ackerman) — Tiny workers run a domesticated factory under the supervision of giant hands. This fantastically convenient at-home solution for disposable creation is absurdly inefficient and potentially an answer to the question of how we get rubber gloves. The timer is ticking.  Available online for public.  \n \nCabbage Daddy  / Canada (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Grace An) — When the mind of a bilingual child mirrors absurd translations, their poetic misinterpretations can accidentally produce multiple meanings — and create puns.  Cast: Annette Hong Kim, Grace An, Daniel Heemang Cho, Oliver Lewis, Alex Shawki, Yusef Shawki Chu. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nHomemade Gatorade  / U.S.A. (Director and Screenwriter: Carter Amelia Davis) — A woman embarks on a road trip to deliver her creamy homemade sports drink to a mysterious online buyer.  Cast: Lauren Davis, Carter Amelia Davis, Spencer Hawk, Alosha Robinson, Connett Croghan. Available online for public.  \n \nHUGS  / Belgium (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Nicolas Fong) — A ride on a bike’s luggage rack is a sensory roller coaster through a land full of cuddles.  North American Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nLiving with a Visionary  / U.S.A. (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Stephen P. Neary, Producer: Mireia Vilanova) — After 50 years of marriage, John must care for his wife while learning to live alongside her vivid hallucinations.  Cast: James Cromwell, Katherine LaVictoire. World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n  \nMangittatuarjuk (The Gnawer of Rocks)  / Canada (Director, Screenwriter, Producer: Louise Flaherty, Screenwriter: Neil Christopher) — Two young women are trapped in the lair of the Mangittatuarjuk, the Gnawer of Rocks. The young women and their village use the teachings of the elders to try to defeat the monster.  Cast: Nellie Enuaraq, Joan Joanas, Andrea Flaherty.  \n \nOnce in a Body   / Colombia, U.S.A. (Director and Screenwriter: María Cristina Pérez, Producers: Mauricio Cuervo, Mireia Vilanova, Katherine Cabrera, James Belfer, Adam Belfer) — A woman seeks to reconcile with her sister over an incident from their adolescence by exploring their shared experiences through their bodies.  Cast: Sara Isabella Martínez. Available online for public.  \n \nPaper Trail  / U.S.A. (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Don Hertzfeldt) — A life, seen through paper.  World Premiere.  \n \nSorrow Doesn’t Sleep at Night   / Chile (Directors and Screenwriters: Josefina Montino, Martín André, Screenwriter: Jacobi Hadley, Producer: Jacinta del Real) — A man secludes himself in a house in the forest. The ghosts of his past begin to torment him, forcing him to face his fears and guilts to not be consumed by madness.  Cast: Raimundo Bucher. Available online for public.  \n \nUM  / France (Director and Screenwriter: Nieto, Producer: Nicolas Schmerkin) — The bird people have fallen into violent chaos and are prey to a disturbing phenomenon: Their eggs seem to be haunted by demonic faces. Their hatching appears to herald an imminent catastrophe.  Cast: Michiko Takahashi. U.S. Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nNONFICTION SHORT FILMS  \n \nThe Baddest Speechwriter of All  / U.S.A. (Directors and Producers: Ben Proudfoot, Stephen Curry, Producer: Erick Peyton) — Now 93, Martin Luther King Jr.’s lawyer and speechwriter reflects on the personal cost and surprising truths of making history, offering an intimate insider’s view of the Civil Rights Movement.  World Premiere.   Available online for public.  \n \nThe Boys and the Bees  / U.S.A. (Director and Producer: Arielle C. Knight, Producer: Sean Weiner) — On an idyllic farm in rural Georgia, Black beekeeping parents tenderly share their knowledge of life, love, and nature with their young sons while restoring their homestead.  Available online for public.  \n \nThe Chimney Sweeper  / U.S.A. (Director and Producer: Jack Raese) — Markus — whose great-great-great-grandfather invented the nutcracker doll — makes nutcrackers for a living, as did each of his forefathers who descended from the great inventor. Markus discusses his life decisions.  Available online for public.  \n  \nGoing Sane: The Rise and Fall of the Center For Feeling Therapy  / U.S.A. (Director: Joey Izzo, Producers: Adam Ridley, Jordan Londe, Ryan Ridley) — A 1970s Los Angeles therapy collective rises with utopian promise before devolving into a business-minded cult built on control and abuse.  World Premiere.   Available online for public.  \n \nLa Tierra Del Valor (The Home of the Brave)  / U.S.A. (Director and Producer: Cristina Costantini, Producer: Alfie Koetter) — During a summer of grief and fear brought on by immigration raids in Los Angeles, one small act of bravery gives a community hope.  World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nLuigi  / U.S.A. (Director and Producer: Liza Mandelup, Producer: Lauren Cioffi) — When Luigi Mangione is charged with murder, he becomes the subject of fevered obsession. Through letters, fantasies, and conspiracies, strangers turn Luigi into a cultural sensation and a canvas for their rage, desire, and misplaced hope.  Available online for public.  \n \nSome Kind of Refuge  / U.S.A. (Director and Producer: Alexandra Kern, Producer: Colin Cadarette) — On the shifting edge of the Mississippi River in New Orleans, the spirit of a fading outsider community endures through its two oldest residents.  World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nSTILL STANDING  / U.S.A. (Directors and Producers: Victor Tadashi Suarez, Livia Albeck-Ripka) — On January 7, 2025, the Eaton fire destroyed over 9,000 structures in Altadena, California. Thousands more were left standing but contaminated with toxic ash. Residents face the impossible decision of whether they should risk their health to return home.  World Premiere. Available online for public.  \n \nTuktuit : Caribou  / Canada (Director, Screenwriter, and Producer: Lindsay Aksarniq McIntyre) — An exploration of the close and enduring connections between Inuit, caribou, lichens, and land use. A handmade caribou gelatin emulsion reveals the land where caribou struggle to survive burn events and habitat disruption.  Available online for public."}
