{"title":"2025 Best Value Award - pt.AUDIO","author":"Marc Phillips","date":"2025-12-19T08:00:00+00:00","main_content":"The 2025 Best Value Award from pt.AUDIO highlights hi-fi products for sound quality, innovative technology, and affordability amidst rising audio equipment prices.\n\nDecember 19, 2025\n\nThe pt.AUDIO Best Value Award illustrates, year after year, that there’s more to this category than mere affordability. I think when we first envisioned the Best Value category, we wanted to highlight inexpensive hi-fi gear that “punched above its weight,” the kind of equipment that would attract new people to the hobby before they were discouraged by the inevitable long-term sticker shock. For the last couple of years, just around the time we decided to pursue more upscale gear in our formal reviews, we’ve seen a distinct split between inexpensive audio products and more expensive products that nonetheless accomplish far more than the competition. For the 2025 Best Value Award nominations, the principle of “value” is more more complex than ever–even though nothing in high-end audio beats a screaming deal. But there’s another side to the 2025 Best Value Award, and that’s not charging a premium for a paradigm shift. It happened a lot this year.\n\nHere are the ten nominees for the 2025 Best Value Award from pt.AUDIO (in alphabetical order):\n\nAudio by Van Alstine NP-1 Power Amplifier\n\nThis unassuming little $1,200 class AB power amp might not be a flashy or exciting way to start off our 2025 Best Value Award list, but it has one thing going for it–it was designed by the legendary Frank Van Alstine. In fact, the NP-1 might be the last product to be designed from Frank before he died earlier this year (unless there’s something in the pipeline, especially since the company was sold to new owners). That makes the Audio by Van Alstine NP-1 power amplifier a bittersweet yet obvious choice for the list. The NP-1 not only defines the very idea of value, but it qualifies as the most perfect “workhorse” power amp we’ve seen:\n\n“It’s an inexpensive stereo power amplifier that will elevate a modest system, but it’s also so superb and practical that it stands up to upgrade fever. As I found out, it can excel in very ambitious systems without attracting attention to itself–which means it would make an excellent workhorse amplifier. What the NP1 won’t do is give you that same lushness and warmth of a classic tube amplifier, and I get that. At the same time, I love hearing the very different perspective of the NP1. It delivers so much detail and yet it never sounded harsh, brittle or busy in its tonality.”\n\nFender X MoFi American Vintage Turntable\n\nAt first glance the American Vintage turntable design seems to focus on great looks, based on a specific musical theme. Once we started to listen to this affordable, nearly plug-and-play gem, we immediately noticed how much sonic goodness it offers for a price that starts at just $2,999 with arm. (We opted for the $1,495 MoFi MC Gold cartridge which lifts the total price to just $3,999.) It’s the rare analog rig that will appeal to newbies, collectors and audiophiles equally.\n\n“In fact, I started to regard the Fender x MoFi American Vintage deck as a perfect source for producing music that is simply beautiful in nature. Can a lovely pastel-sounding turntable sweep you off your feet while providing all that objective musical information that audiophiles crave? In this case, the answer is yes.”\n\nGenesis Advanced Technologies G7 Minuet Loudspeakers\n\nWith the new G7 loudspeaker line from Genesis Advanced Technology, Gary Koh wanted to provide an affordable way for younger people and novices to the hobby to experience this rarified level of sound. The smallest model in the G7 line, the Minuet, easily qualifies for the 2025 Best Value Award because any compromises made to meet a price point (sustainable bamboo enclosures, for example) have been countered with sheer design know-how. While the G7 Minuet comes in at just under $10k/pr, it succeeds because it sounds like a far more ambitious transducer. The Minuet is a noble product, because it’s the perfect speaker for upgrading an entire system across the board.\n\n“The Genesis G7 Minuets accomplished these well-defined spatial cues with ease, clearly reminding me time after time, that the human voice contains a far more physical presence that is marked by breaths, sighs, the licking of lips, even the shifting of the singer’s stance at the front of the stage. When I first heard this strength, I told myself that ‘this is where the Minuets shine, where they reveal some of Gary’s spirit as well as his design objectives.’ But that implies this is one of those speakers where you have to dismiss the frequency extremes in order to justify the overall cost. It isn’t.”\n\nKonus Audio Integrale 2000 Integrated Amplifier\n\nThe little orange Konus is a perfect example of a high-end audio product that would be equally at home on either the 2025 Best Value Award or the 2025 Product of the Year lists, depending on how you approach it. It weighs less than seven pounds, it has just 33 watts per channel (from a class AB circuit design) and there are only two RCA inputs available. That might seem quite minimalist for a $4,795 integrated amplifier from Bosnia. But sit down and listen to the Integrale 2000 and you realize how difficult it is to achieve this level of performance without some magic underneath the hood. (In this case, it’s very careful parts selection–including NOS!) If you crave simplicity in your hi-fi, the Konus will be the answer. If you want great sound without a lot of fuss, it’s a pure and noteworthy choice.\n\n“I’ve always been the kind of audiophile who just wants it to sound good. Oh, there’s a remote control that uses Bluetooth for real-time software updates? That’s cool. It has a bypass switch? That’s cool, but I don’t need it. How about five RCA inputs and two XLR inputs and all sorts of digital connectivity via USB, S/PDIF, coax, optical and whatever else they invent in the future? I’m sure a lot of audiophiles both want and need all that, too. Modules for phono and a DAC? Even I think that’s a pretty cool feature on integrated amps. But you want to know what? I don’t need anything other than great sound. That’s why I think this crazy little orange box is a GREAT value, because I haven’t heard anything sound this good for this kind of money–especially in this small of a box.”\n\nLine Magnetic LM-519IA SG Integrated Amplifier\n\nWe’ve been interested in reviewing Line Magnetic amplification in these pages for a long time–most notably because it’s always mentioned as one of the first “cream of the crop” brands coming out of China after a prelude of unreliability. (If you’re still biased against ALL Chinese audio manufacturers, you haven’t been paying attention.) Richard Mak, our editor-at-large in Asia, discovered this special SG Live Acoustics version of the LM-519IA integrated at an audio show, he couldn’t believe how nice it sounded. He mentioned that he spent two uninterrupted hours listening to a system powered by the LM and was “exhilarated” and “totally immersed.” So, of course, he bought one. I noticed when other audiophiles applauded his decision–Line Magnetic looks like THE proverbial “best kept secret” in high end audio right now, especially in the US.\n\n“Here’s the kicker: the LM-519IA SG retails for just US $13,600. When Robert Lai, the Singapore dealer of SG Live Acoustics, told me the price, I thought he meant US $136,000. He laughed and said, “Take away a zero.” At today’s prices, you usually add a zero. US $13,600 is less than the cost of many speaker cables. The US market price is currently under revision, primarily due to uncertainties surrounding the tariff war, but it is expected to be US $21,995 – still undervalued in my book.”\n\nTechnics SL-1300G Turntable\n\nWhen I agreed to review the new Technics SL-1300G turntable with its new ΔΣ-Drive, described by the company as a “new motor drive technology that delivers high rotational accuracy and low vibration,” my first thought was “I’d really rather have another SL-1200G to play with.” The SL-1300G, at the time of the review, was a full $1,000 less than a comparable SL-1200G, and I imagined my review would be concerned with how close the lesser ‘table came to its larger and more famous brother, a brother that I also happen to champion. What I didn’t expect was a new Technics turntable that not only matched the sound of the 1200G, it surpassed it in some ways. I mentioned at the time that the ΔΣ-Drive system was such a game changer that a Delta Sigma version of the SL-1200G had to be waiting in the wings–and now we know a new 1200G is coming. But for now, you can save a little money for the 1300G, which sounds more linear and clean and quiet, and it looks much nicer as well.\n\n“Let’s face it–great analog rigs for around $3,000 are becoming rarer and rarer. That should change with the advent of the Technics SL-1300G, with other manufacturers at this price point realizing they need to up their game in order to compete. Twenty years ago I would have never guessed that I would consider Technics a major force in turntable design in 2025, but here we are, seeing all types of ultra high-end systems once again fronted by a truly familiar face. If you’re still confused by the plethora of Technics turntables these days, write a note to yourself that this is one you want to hear before you make any other decisions.”\n\nTechnics SL-50C Turntable\n\nWhat, two Technics turntables in the 2025 Best Value category? It’s no secret that the legendary Japanese audio brand has been very busy over the last year introducing new models, and the ΔΣ-Drive technology is certain one of the big analog stories of 2025. But Technics also quietly introduced a new entry-level model with arm and cartridge for just $899.99, and it was the turntable our reviewer Garrett Hongo chose, after a proper review, for his college-age daughter who wanted to spin LPs just like her dad.\n\n“If you’re looking for an entry-level but quality turntable rig, the Technics SL-50C has got to be high on your shopping list. I think it’s a superb starting point for building an analog system—compact and lightweight, easy to assemble, simple to operate, and ready to combine with your choice of speakers, amp, and preamp (or integrated amp). More than that, it costs under $1,000 and sounds great with a variety of music.”\n\nSVS Ultra Revolution Tower Loudspeakers\n\nIf you’ve just read through the 2025 Buyers Guide, you’ll know that our interest in subwoofers has been rekindled over the last couple of years–mostly due to some illuminating listening sessions with big systems. That led us to SVS, the biggest subwoofer company in the world for the last decade or so. While Graig Neville was definitely impressed with the SVS SB-5000 sub he reviewed, several of us–Brian Hunter, Matthew Partrick and yours truly–gravitated toward their full-range loudspeakers and noticed that price-performance ratio was definitely skewed in favor of the consumer. Matthew reviewed the Ultra Revolution Towers and thought they were unbelievably good for just $3,000/pr. Since then I’ve spent time with the Flagship Pinnacles, for a very reasonable $5,000/pr, and I think we’ve just pushed the idea of “value” to new heights–at least in the fickle world of high-end audio.\n\n“I couldn’t help but be flabbergasted by the quality of sound overall coming out of an affordable speaker. Let that sit for a second. Some people pay many times more than that for cables alone. SVS must surely be benefiting from trickle-down economics when it comes to speaker technology, and frankly it scares me to think what their top-of-the-line tower would have sounded like in my listening room.” \n\nVan den Hul MC-ONE Special Phono Cartridge\n\nI wasn’t prepared for the Van den Hul MC-ONE Special’s arrival at my house last summer. John McGurk of Audioshield Distribution asked me if I wanted to try another VdH cartridge after reviewing the Crimson Stradivarius XGW a couple of years ago, and I think I blathered on and on about trying frogs and grasshoppers for the first time in one of my systems, and shortly afterward two small boxes arrived–one with yet another XGW and the other with the classic Van den Hul MC-ONE Special. I once heard an older version of this cartridge, which has been around for decades, and I remember putting it on my short list for affordable low-output MCs. While my love and admiration for the $5,495 Crimson increased with round two–I really, really loved it–I couldn’t believe how intrigued I was with the $2,045 MC-ONE Special. While it had a rather direct and muscular approach compared to the airy and spacious XGW, reminding me of the very best MMs I’ve heard over the years, I ultimately concluded that if I was in the market for a $2K cartridge, this would undoubtedly be it.\n\n“Over time, my affection for this cartridge grew–and that wasn’t just a function of break-in. The Van den Hul MC-One Special really speaks to the audiophile I used to be, trying to stretch my high-end audio dollar in order to barely scramble to the next level of performance like a hobo hopping a freight train in the middle of the Mojave.”\n\nVera-Fi Vanguard Caldera 12 Subwoofer\n\nI’ve had one reservation about pt.AUDIO’s move toward more upscale equipment–how would we continue to tell everyone about Vera-Fi products from Mark Schifter? For me, a Vera-Fi review would have to be set-up in a second, smaller system in the house. (It’s something I do occasionally, especially when I need to break in gear.) In the case of the Vera-Fi Vanguard Caldera 12 subwoofer review, I went in another direction. I placed this compact yet nicely finished $299 subwoofer in a very expensive system, with a range of expensive loudspeakers that might still benefit from a few extra Hz at the bottom end. Much to my surprise, the Caldera 12 was a very satisfying fit and didn’t have any of the flaws–poor blending ability with the satellites, deep bass that’s overbearing–I’ve experienced with so-called affordable subs.\n\n“If you have a more modest system, for which the Vera-Fi Vanguard Caldera 12 is obviously designed, I think this subwoofer can perform miracles. It’s easy to blend into your system, and it’s easy to place in your room, and you’ll have access to low frequency performance that will significantly increase your enjoyment with what you already have. I really wished the Caldera 12 had been around during my younger days–it would have been the ideal solution for extraordinary sound.”\n\n…and the 2025 Best Value Award from pt.AUDIO goes to:\n\n…the Technics SL-1300G Turntable!\n\nIt’s hard to talk about the value of the Technics SL-1300G turntable without talking about the venerable SL-1200G, the deck that finally changed my mind about direct drive for good. The Technics SL-1300G still wins the 2025 Best Value Award from pt.AUDIO in spite of the fact that the price went up $600 since the review–that totally reasonable $3,399 with tonearm becomes less miraculous at $3,999. But the sheer value and pure surprise of the SL-1300G is how well it matches up to the more expensive SL-1200G, which is now $4,999, and that’s not the new Sigma Delta version that will reset the line-up, I’d imagine.\n\nThe Technics SL-1300G turntable and tonearm combination wins 2025 Best Value because it’s amazing when a company introduces a new technology that offers a clearly audible improvement in the sound, while keeping the cost of these products reasonable. (Prices in this hobby have jumped in 2025–no surprises there.) Plus, Technics turntables last forever. Plus, the Technics SL-1300G is one of the most attractive Technics turntables ever, all sleek and streamlined and free from strobe lights and slider controls. Congratulations to Technics for this extraordinary value.\n\nBy Marc Phillips Published On: December 19, 2025 Categories: Buyers Guide Tags: part-time audiophile, 2025 buyers guide, audio by van alstine, best value award, direct drive turntable, fender x mofi, floorstanding loudspeakers, genesis advanced technologies, konus audio, line magnetic, marc phillips, mofi electronics, phono cartridge, pt.audio best value, subwoofers, svs, technics, van den hul, vera-fi audio"}
