{"title":"The Beginning of the End of Artisanal Software Crafting","author":null,"date":"2025-12-18T04:39:48+00:00","main_content":"Wednesday, December 17, 2025\n\nWe are likely the last generation of developers to have an emotional attachment to the shape of our code. After letting AI modernize a 14-year-old codebase to make it faster and better at low cost, I realized that the era of artisanal software crafting is beginning to end; we are entering the age of industrial software production, and each of our cheeses is going to move.\n\nThe last time I coded fiercely was during 2011-12. Back then, REST and HTTP APIs were the rage. Node.js was young and rapidly gaining popularity and adoption. I just left Yahoo to join eBay. While at Yahoo, I witnessed the traction Yahoo Pipes got for easily integrating multiple public APIs and feeds into responses that had the data you needed. However, Yahoo Pipes was a hosted service, and developers could not use it to integrate with their companies’ APIs. Soon after joining eBay, I built a quick prototype of a SQL-based query engine in Node.js to easily aggregate eBay’s internal APIs. In that prototype, I modeled each API as a table and used SQL for selects, filters, joins, and related operations to massage response data. It was lightweight and fast.\n\nI called it ql.io. It was like GraphQL before it was introduced in 2015. While GraphQL modeled data as gs a graph, ql.io modeled data sources as tables. A few leaders at eBay saw my demos and encouraged me to keep going, and I went into a mad coding spree. I wrote a more elaborate query grammar, used an open-source parser generator to compile SQL-like scripts into an execution tree, built an engine to orchestrate HTTP requests, and created a graphical user interface with syntax highlighting to learn the syntax and quickly try it out. A few more engineers joined me, and we continued building it. People who saw the demos loved it, and we open-sourced it in November 2011. However, by late spring of 2012, despite receiving nearly 1,000 stars on GitHub, the project struggled to gain adoption both within eBay and beyond. We decided to abandon the project and pursue other areas. I have not touched the code since then, and it rotted badly.\n\nThen, two Saturdays ago, I downloaded Kiro (it could have been Cursor or another tool, but Kiro had free credits to get me started), forked ql.io, and pointed Kiro at the codebase. I provided some context about the project and asked Kiro to analyze the codebase. In about a minute, it gave me a detailed analysis of the good, the bad, and the ugly, highlighting long-broken dependencies, language changes, callback hell, long-retired test frameworks, vulnerabilities, and more. I then asked Kiro to propose a detailed plan to modernize it. I set constraints, such as not breaking module-level interfaces and ensuring the test suite remains functional at every step. It gave me a 10-step project plan with detailed steps. I asked some probing questions to modify the plan.\n\nWe (my dev servant and I) then got to work. Over the following days, we modernized the codebase to work with the latest version of Node.js, adopted modern language features such as promises to address callback hell, upgraded all tests, and rewrote the examples. Through this process, I got Kiro to add more tests to address some lightly tested areas, fixed all the vulnerabilities, wrote a performance test suite, set up test gates on pull requests, and even generated infrastructure code to deploy ql.io on AWS using a serverless architecture — all without touching any code artifacts. Mind that I had to pull Kiro out of rabbit holes, challenge its proposals, and force it to backtrack the changes multiple times. But in the end, it turned out okay. Kiro made thousands of edits to the code, and I did not even bother to review the changes, other than asking Kiro to play the role of an annoying code reviewer and account for the feedback. I leaned on tests to ensure the correctness of what Kiro did.\n\nIn case you’re curious, see the fork and the AI-generated summary of modernization. The codebase is AI-generated, and it does what it was meant to do.\n\nTHIS IS SCARY AND EXCITING.\n\nI believe we are at the very beginning of the end of artisanal software crafting, and we are about to enter into industrialized software building.\n\nHow we practice software today is artisanal. In this mode, we carefully choose languages and tools to craft code and develop an attachment to them. We have opinions about its shape and structure, and we have ideas about its beauty and elegance. We build religions around languages and code. Then we set up tools and processes to address the complexity of building software in teams. We create roles such as architects, designers, test engineers, performance engineers, infrastructure engineers, and site reliability engineers to tackle different aspects of building and running software. We do all this because building software has been time-consuming, and we spend our working hours playing these roles and following the processes. The artisanal way helps us cope with that complexity. But we may be the last generation to practice this craft in this way.\n\nWhen I wrote ql.io, I learned a lot. I developed better mental models of what to build and how to build. You could wake me up at night, and I could explain the design and structure. I could apply the lessons learned in the years that followed.\n\nBut this rewrite was different. I had Kiro play the roles of a project manager, an architect, a Node.js developer, a performance test engineer, an infra engineer, and a code reviewer. I felt like I was the master, a jack-of-all-trades focusing more on the “what” and less on the “how.” Yet, other than becoming effective at guiding Kiro, I didn’t learn much. But I cleared 14 years of code rot in a few days. The rewrite didn’t take multiple people and months. It was cheap. I could throw it away and do it again in a few days. This is industrial software production. Software thus becomes a fungible, like that trinket you buy on Temu.\n\nWhile I continue to stand by my skepticism due to AI hallucinating and having jumbled representations of concepts, AI-native development environments have gotten so much better to get almost the same kind of experience you would have with an imperfect colleague. After all, we are all imperfect in some way.\n\nIn the coming months and years, we will continue to industrialize software production. The cost of producing software will likely plummet. We will likely enter an era of cheaply constructed software abundance. Our relationship with code is about to change in ways we didn’t expect even a couple of years ago.\n\nWill we continue with the belief that “programs must be written for people to read and only incidentally for machines to execute” (this was from the first edition of Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs )? Does it matter if people no longer understand the code as long as machines (including LLMs) can read, create, and manipulate the code? Likely not, as software production gets industrialized.\n\nAs we go through this shift, each of our cheeses will move—some at a crawl, others at a sprint. Our current organizational structures were designed for a world where people handcraft code at a specific, manageable pace. But when production speed increases by an order of magnitude, “artisanal” habits become bottlenecks.\n\nIt will soon be impossible for teams to justify spending weeks on tasks that an “agent whisperer” (I am borrowing this phrase from a friend of mine, Anand, who helped me clarify my thoughts for this article) can orchestrate in a few hours. It can get very, very difficult for individuals and teams to justify why they do things in a certain way. It can be difficult for specific tools, internal platforms, functions, and roles to justify their existence. Brace yourself for the change.\n\nIf you are an engineer: Relinquish the glamor of being an artisan. Stop measuring your value by the code you write and start measuring it by your impact. Become an “agent whisperer.” You define the “what” and set the boundaries of correctness to meet that “what.” In an industrial setting, the generalist who can steer the machine is king.\n\nIf you are a manager: Get hands-on to learn what’s possible, and then figure out how to lead change to produce some intentional productivity wins. Don’t just hand out AI licenses and hope for the best. Plunge into the discomfort. Consider your team a system and determine what to dismantle to serve a high-throughput world.\n\nIf you enjoyed this article, consider subscribing for future articles. I write about\ntechnology and leadership. I will never share your email with anyone. You can unsubscribe\nat any time."}
